# Sample data insertion for each category
sample_data = {
      'Acts': [
            ('Mining Act',
             'The Mining Act governs mining operations in India. It covers various aspects of mining, including '
             'exploration, licensing, and environmental regulations. The Act is designed to ensure the sustainable '
             'and responsible extraction of minerals while safeguarding the environment and the rights of local '
             'communities.'),
            ('Mineral Conservation and Development Rules',
             'These rules outline procedures for mineral conservation. They emphasize the efficient use of mineral '
             'resources, the prevention of illegal mining, and the promotion of scientific mining practices. The '
             'rules set forth guidelines for mining leaseholders to follow in managing mineral reserves and ensuring '
             'their sustainable development.'),
      ],
      'Rules': [
            ('Mining Safety Rules',
             'Safety rules for mining operations are crucial to protect the health and well-being of mining '
             'personnel. These rules establish safety standards and protocols for various aspects of mining, '
             'including underground and surface operations, explosives handling, and ventilation. Compliance with '
             'these rules is essential to minimize accidents and ensure a safe working environment for miners.'),
            ('Environmental Protection Rules',
             'Rules for environmental protection in mining are aimed at minimizing the ecological impact of mining '
             'activities. They prescribe measures for environmental impact assessments, pollution control, '
             'and reclamation of mined areas. Adhering to these rules is vital to mitigate the environmental '
             'footprint of mining operations and fulfill legal obligations.'),
      ],
      'Regulations': [
            ('Mining Regulations',
             'Regulations related to mining activities provide detailed guidance on compliance with the Mining Act '
             'and Rules. These regulations cover a wide range of topics, including lease applications, royalties, '
             'and safety inspections. They are essential for ensuring that mining companies and operators meet legal '
             'and operational requirements in their mining activities.'),
            ('Export and Import Regulations',
             'Rules for exporting and importing minerals govern the international trade of mined products. These '
             'regulations specify documentation and licensing requirements for the export and import of minerals. '
             'Compliance with these rules is necessary to facilitate international trade while preventing illegal '
             'mineral exports and imports.'),
      ],
      'Guidelines': [
            ('Mining Guidelines',
             'Guidelines for sustainable mining practices offer recommendations for responsible mining operations. '
             'They advocate for environmentally conscious practices, community engagement, and ethical conduct. '
             'Following these guidelines is not only a legal requirement but also contributes to the industry\'s '
             'social and environmental responsibility.'),
            ('Safety Guidelines',
             'Safety guidelines for mining personnel provide practical advice for ensuring the well-being of miners. '
             'They cover topics such as personal protective equipment (PPE), emergency response, and first aid '
             'procedures. Implementing these guidelines is essential to prevent accidents and safeguard the health of '
             'workers.'),
      ],
      'Methodology': [
            ('Mining Methodology',
             'The methodology for extracting minerals from mines outlines the step-by-step process of mining '
             'operations. It encompasses exploration, drilling, blasting, ore extraction, and processing. A '
             'well-defined methodology is essential to optimize resource recovery while minimizing environmental '
             'impacts and ensuring worker safety.'),
            ('Environmental Assessment Methodology',
             'Methodology for environmental impact assessment in mining is crucial for evaluating the potential '
             'ecological consequences of mining projects. It involves comprehensive studies to assess air and water '
             'quality, wildlife habitats, and socio-economic factors. Following this methodology helps mining '
             'companies make informed decisions and mitigate environmental risks.'),
      ],
      'Corrigenda': [
            ('Mining Corrigendum',
             'This corrigendum corrects errors in previous mining regulations. It may include updates to legislative '
             'texts, clarifications, or corrections of typographical errors. Staying informed about corrigenda is '
             'essential for legal compliance and ensuring that mining operations adhere to the latest regulatory '
             'requirements.'),
            ('Safety Corrigendum',
             'Corrigendum related to safety regulations in mining addresses safety-related updates or changes in '
             'safety guidelines. Staying up to date with safety corrigenda is critical for maintaining a safe working '
             'environment and complying with the latest safety standards.'),
      ]
}