Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Orders dated 28.05.2020 and 24.1l.2021
(copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendations
of the Empowered Committee of Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the
following modification in the methodology for auction of coal mineslblocks identified
under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2. The para 2.1.5 (A) of Order dated 28 .05.2020 on the subject mentioned above shall
stand modified as under:-
Upfront Amount:
(A) The Up front Amount shall be calculated at 0.20% of the value of estimated
geological reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be
equal to the product of the following:
(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) of OM of even number dated 28 .05.2020.
However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above
method or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-
Geological Reserves in mine (MT) -Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount
(Rs. cr)
Upto 200- 75
Above 200 -500
3. All other terms & conditions will remain the same.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the
subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendation of Empowered Committee of
Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the following modification in the
methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of
coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2. The para 2.1.4 (b) of Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned
above shall stand modified as under:
Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a
rebate of 50% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.
3. The aforesaid modification shall be applicable for ongoing and successive tranches of
auction for sale of coal.
4. All other terms of Order dated 28.05.2020 shall remain the same.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act,
2015 and Rule 3(1 ) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11 A of
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the
Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks
identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2.1 Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-
2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines
(categorised in G-l exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal
Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or
G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The
Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis
mutandis.
2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal
mines (categorised in G-l exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in
G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the
bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to
the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments
will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue
share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of
revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the
bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder.
2.1.3 Revenue share payable:
(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which
shall be determined as product of:
(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder;
(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month; and
(iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where

(a) 'notional price' refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with
sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes
payable, where ' representative price' is product of-
(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and
imported price channels) of base year, and
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender, and
(b) 'actual price' refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes,
levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc.
(B) In addition to revenue share, other statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET,
DMF, etc. shall be payable under applicable laws.
2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events:
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events:
(a) Early production:
(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production as per the
production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier
than such scheduled date of production.
(ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of
coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining
plan.
(iii) Statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per
law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc.
under applicable laws required for stati of production.
(b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process,
a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller's certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.
(c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may reVIew and determine the incentives on
revenue share from time to time.
2.1.5 Upfront Amount:
(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological
reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product
of the following:
, ,
(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred III para 2.1.3
(A)(iii)(a) above.
However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method
or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-
Geological Reserves in mine (MT) -Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount
(Rs. cr)
Upto 200 -100
Above 200- 500
(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be
revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by
Empowered Committee of Secretaries.
(C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against
the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount
shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year.
(D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as
provided in the tender document.
.'
2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal
There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The
successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful
bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including
but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal.
2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production
(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as
per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not
produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any
block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of
scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine.
(B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a financial year:
(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in
any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both,
coal produced and shOlifall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled
coal production for that financial year.
(ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of
scheduled coal production less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid)
shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
(C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in
a block of three financial years:
(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of
the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the
revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is
equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years.
 (ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal
production of three years less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in
three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
(D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be
payable as per the applicable law.
2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane
In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful
bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall
approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed
by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly
revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly
revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it
during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM
shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being
the administrative Ministry.
2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block
A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish
the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents.
2.1.10 Other terms and conditionsl modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by the M/o Coal.
2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under
the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act.
2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding
production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its
affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the
first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent
tranches of auction may be placed as per decision Irecommendation of an Empowered
Committee of Secretaries.
2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale
of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal.
2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades
shall be developed in accordance with 2nd repOli of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC)
with following modifications:
1. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis.
II. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the
imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade
(consisting of W -1 , 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no impOli component. Rest
of the Coking Coal, i.e. W-5 and W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of
Non-Coking Coal.
III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above.
2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority, an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has
been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide!
recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and
also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020
referred to in this para.
2.4 Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage
The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted
for a tenure upto 30 years.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the
subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendation of Empowered Committee of
Secretaries, the Central Government has approved the following modification in the
methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of
coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2. The para 2.1.4 (b) of Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned
above shall stand modified as under:
Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a
rebate of 50% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.
3. The aforesaid modification shall be applicable for ongoing and successive tranches of
auction for sale of coal.
4. All other terms of Order dated 28.05.2020 shall remain the same.
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation
Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of the Mines and Minerals (Development
and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the Central Government has
approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the
relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2.1 Methodology for auction of coal mines for sale of coal on Rs. per tonne
basis:
2.1.1 Bid Parameter: The auction will be an ascending forward auction
whereby the bid parameter will be the price offer in Rs. /tonne which will
be paid to the State Government on the actual production of coal.
The floor price shall be unit ratio in terms of Rs. per tonne basis,
determined in accordance with methodology as mentioned at Sl. No. 1 of
Ministry of Coal's order no. 13016/9/2014/CA-III dated December 26,
2014 at Annexure-I.
The bidder who submits the highest price offer (Final Price Offer)
shall be the Successful Bidder.
2.1.2 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal: There shall be no restriction on
the sale and/or utilization of coal from the coal mine. The Successful
Bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the
Successful Bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilize
coal for captive consumption and export of coal.
2.1.3 Coal Production Schedule: Successful Bidder shall have certain
degree of flexibility to manage its production depending on the market
scenario and will be allowed to reduce its production below Peak Rated
Capacity of the coal mine. Successful Bidder shall also be allowed to
increase its production subject to a revision in Mining Plan and statutory
approvals. While the Successful Bidder shall be allowed to manage his
production quantity (subject to the cap as per the Mining Plan) in the
event of any economic downturn or other such event, a drop in the
actual production is allowed, not below 50% of the production as per the
Mining Plan. However, in any five year block, the Successful Bidder will
have to mine out at least 70% of the production as per the Mining Plan.
2.1.4 Annual Adjustment of the Final Price Offer (including windfall
gains, if any): Windfall gain can be defined as a very significant increase
in revenue in comparison to increase in costs. During the mining lease
period, as a natural course, it is expected that the selling price of coal as
well as cost of production will increase due to inflation. Windfall gains
may arise in some situations, resulting in significant increase in the
profit of Successful Bidder.
In order to capture the potential revenue upside, including windfall gains
(if any), the Final Price Offer (Rs. / tonne) shall be considered as base for
the year of bidding with yearly adjustment linked to the Wholesale Price
Index - coal (of relevant grade) as published by GOT, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (website: www.eaindustrv.nic.in) subject to the
condition that such figure shall not at any time be less than the Final
Price Offer. It shall be the responsibility of the concerned State
Governments to carry out the above calculation for determining adjusted
Final Price Offer and collecting the same from the Successful Bidder.

2.2 For sale of coal, Foreign Direct Investment to the extent of 100% may be
allowed in coal mining activities including associated processing infrastructure
to attract international players to create efficient and competitive coal market.
The nodal Ministry/Department i.e. Department of Industrial Policy and
Promotion shall be approached for the same.
2.3 Washing of coal by the Successful Bidder should be as per extant
guidelines of M/o Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
2.4 The mines to be auctioned for sale of coal and their time schedule shall be
decided by the Ministry of Coal.
2.5 Terms and Conditions / modalities including eligibility criteria shall be
decided by Ministry of Coal as the same are part of Tender Conditions.
2.6 The above methodology for auction of coal mines shall also be applied for
the coal mines to be auctioned for sale of coal under the provisions of the
MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made thereunder.

Subject:- Methodology for fixing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks.
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/ReserVe Price for Auction and Allotment of Coal
Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:-
METHODOLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE
1. For fixing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
Cement, Captive Power etc.:
The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The final NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to• become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per
tonne. The resultant bid price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.
2. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and
3. For fixing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses :
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be payable, as
per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable
....2/-
-2-
on doal,will continue to be governed as per extant rules. This.would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as may be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
`Reserve Price' may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-1 bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process
for the coal blocks.
4. For fixing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation.capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-I)/generation capacity tct be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs
(Case-1) in future : -
a. A Ceiling Price of CIL Notified price for each coal block will be
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine . (ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by CIL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidder. This will be taken for
transfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specified escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy chaige. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the
consumers. •
b. The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-1
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines.
c. A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.100/- per tonne of coal shall be
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules i.e. at the CIL notified price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in `1D' above.
d. The successful allottee shall have to make upfront payment @ 10
% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document.
-3-
e. TO ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to the consumers,
the following conditions has been prescribed:
I. For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future - 5or the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost
. plus PPAs, the Appropriate CommissiOn will allow bid price of
coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would.have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA.
II. For the generation capacity contracted through tariff
bid based PPAs (Case-3) - The Appropriate Commission shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in
coal block bid document as being equivalent to Run of WIC
(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as "Change in Law" to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions
of PPA.
III. For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs. (Case-1) in future - The Appropriate
Commission shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible_ components of energy charge.
IV. For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
provisions in the Tariff policy and/or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.
f. For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be
mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the generating
....4/-
-4-
capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long terra PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63 .
of the Electricity Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market. The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.
5. Any further revision of CIL price after the bid due date would not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already been provided for in para 4.(b) above. For future bidding of
coal blocks, the then prevailing CIL_price cL be considered .for determining
ceiling price.
6. For auction/allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as
provided in Section 4(2) of the Coal Mines (Special Provision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be formulated.


Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and Rule 3(1) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below:
2.1 Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-
2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-1 exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis mutandis.
2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal mines (categorised in G-1 exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder.
2.1.3 Revenue share payable:
(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which shall be determined as product of:
(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder;
(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month; and (iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where
(a) 'notional price' refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes payable, where 'representative price' is product of-
(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and imported price channels) of base year, and
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender, and
(b) 'actual price' refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc.
(B) In addition to revenue share, other statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable under applicable laws.
2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events:
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events:
(a) Early production:
(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production as per the production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier than such scheduled date of production.
(ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining plan.
(iii) Statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc. under applicable laws required for start of production.
(b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller's certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.
(c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may review and determine the incentives on revenue share from time to time.
2.1.5 Upfront Amount:
(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product of the following:
(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3 (A)(iii)(a) above.
However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-
Geological Reserves in mine (MT)
Upto 200
Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount (Rs. cr)
100
500
Above 200
(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by Empowered Committee of Secretaries.
(C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year.
(D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as provided in the tender document.
2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal
There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal.
2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production
(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine.
(B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in a financial year:
(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled coal production for that financial year.
(ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of scheduled coal production less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
(C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in a block of three financial years:
(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years.

(ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal production of three years less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price.
(D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be payable as per the applicable law.
2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane
In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being the administrative Ministry.
2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block
A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents.
2.1.10 Other terms and conditions/ modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be decided by the M/o Coal.
2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act.
2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent tranches of auction may be placed as per decision /recommendation of an Empowered Committee of Secretaries.
2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal.
2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades shall be developed in accordance with 2nd report of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC) with following modifications:
I. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis.
II. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade (consisting of W-1, 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no import component. Rest of the Coking Coal, i.e. W-5 and W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of Non-Coking Coal.
III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above.
2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority, an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide/ recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020 referred to in this para.
2.4
Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage
The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted for a tenure upto 30 years.

Subject: Methodology for allowing allocatees of coal mines for specified
end use or own consumption to sell upto 25% of actual production on
ROM basis in open market under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1957.
The undersigned is directed to refer to provisions of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015, the Rules framed thereunder and the
methodology dated 26.12.2014 for allocation of coal mines by the
Government for specified end-uses viz. for Power (regulated sector) and for
Non-Regulated Sector [Cement, Iron 85 Steel and Captive Power Production
clubbed together as NRS].
2. In addition to the provisions contained in the methodology dated
26.12.2014 for specified end uses, it has been decided to allow future
allocatees of coal mines for specified end use or own consumption to utilize
a minimum of 75% of actual production (ROM basis) in specified end use
plants and to sell upto 25% of actual production (on ROM basis) in open
market with payment of additional premium on such sale as mentioned in
para 3 below:
3. Definition of Captive Use - Utilization of coal by the Allocattee.
3.1 In case of coal mines earmarked for specified end uses or own
consumption, the allocatees are mandated to utilize a minimum of 75% of
its actual production (ROM basis) in specified end use plants and are
allowed to sell upto 25% in open market. In case of auctions, the successful
bidder shall be required to pay an additional premium of 15% of its final bid
price on per tonne basis, for the actual quantity of coal sold in open market.
The additional premium will be over and above the final bid price. In case of
allotments, the successful allottee shall be required to pay an additional
reserve price of 15% of the Reserve Price, for the actual quantity of coal sold
in open market. The additional reserve price will be over and above the
Reserve Price.
3.2 If due to maintenance or shutdown or such other unavoidable reasons,
beyond the control of allocattce, during any part of the year, the allocattee is
not able to use a minimum of 75% of actual production (ROM basis) in
specified end use plant or own consumption, any excess coal out of such
75% of actual production will have to be mandatorily sold by the allocattee
to CIL at CIL notified price less 15% of such CIL notified price as per existing
conditions.
3.3 This would be applicable to auction of coal mines under the 6th and 7th
tranches for which NIT has been floated on 25.10.2018 and for allotment of
mines under the 4th and 5th tranches for which NIA was floated on
11.06.2018 as well as future allocations (auction/allotment).
4. The provisions contained in Para 3 would be applicable to coal mines to
be allocated under Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015, as well as for
allocation of • coal mines under Mines and Minerals (Development &
Regulation) Act, 1957.
5. Para 2.6 of O.M. dated 12.10.2018 stands modified to the extent as
indicated in para 3 above.

Subject: Methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price
for Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015.
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 and Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 and to say that the Central Government has approved
the methodology for fixing Upfront Payment and Reserve Price for Allotment
of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal to PSUs under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 as mentioned below:-
"Upfront Payment for Allotment: The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will
be calculated by computing its Net Present Value (NPV), based on
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The 10 % of this intrinsic value will be
payable upfront in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the
allotment document. This is similar to the methodology used for calculation
of upfront payment for coal mines/blocks allotted to the Government
Companies for specified end-uses.
Reserve Price for allotment: A reserve price equivalent to the amount of
the royalty on coal as per prevalent rate shall be payable on per tonne basis
to the relevant coal bearing State Government as per actual production of
coal by the successful allottee including the allottees in the State of West
Bengal where royalty is prescribed in Rs. per tonne. The amount will be
calculated as per the extant / prevailing rate of royalty ad-valorem on price
of coal as reflected in the invoice, excluding taxes, levies and other charges.
The statutory royalty and other levies payable on coal will continue to be
governed as per extant rules."

Subject:- Methodology for IlXing Floor/Reserve Price for Auction and
Allotment of Coal Mines/Blocks.
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions), Rules, 2014 and Section 8(5) of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions), Ordinance, 2014 the Government is pleased to approve the
Methodology for fixing Floor/ReserVe Price for Auction and Allotment of. Coal
Mines/Blocks as mentioned below:-
ME-THODOLOGY FOR FIXING FLOOR/RESERVE PRICE
1. For IlXing floor price for Auction for sectors like Steel, Sponge iron,
Cement, Captive Power etc.:
The Intrinsic Value of the coal block will be calculated by computing its
Net Present Value (NPV), based on Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method. The
10 % of this intrinsic value will be payable u pfront in 3 installments of 5%,
2.5% and 2.5% as prescribed in the bidding document. The final NPV (after
subtracting the upfront payment received from the bidder) will then be
annuitized to become equal to a unit ratio in terms of Rs/tonne (viz. floor
price). In this case for calculation of intrinsic value, it is proposed that, the
extant notified price of CIL (price of domestic coal) for the non-regulated
sectors for the corresponding GCV bands will be taken into account for
computing NPV. However, floor price shall not be less than Rs. ISO/-per
to=e. The resultant bid price (Rs/to=e) shall be considered as base for the
year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI. The statutory royalty
payable on coal will continue to be governed as per extant rules.
2. For IlXing Reserve Price for coal mines /blocks to be allotted for
power projects to be set up in future on tariff based bidding (Case-2) and
3. For IlXing Reserve Price for coal mines/blocks to be allotted to the
Government Companies for specified end-uses:
A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.l 00 / - per tonne of coal shall be payable, as
per actual production by the successful allottee. The statutory royalty payable
on coal. will continue to be governed as per extant rules. This would ensure
that there is no adverse impact on power tariff. The successful allottee shall
have to pay upfront payment, as mai be prescribed in the tender/allotment
document. There is no bidding on coal under these two categories. The
'Reserve Price' may be escalated using a pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Documents for Case-l bidding
as formulated by Ministry of Power for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mines. However, for existing generation capacity contracted through tariff bid
based PPAs (Case-2), arranging fuel is the responsibility of power procurer.
Such Case-2 projects shall not be eligible to participate in the auction process
for the coal blocks.
4. For Itxing the ceiling price for coal mines/blocks to be auctioned
for generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or for generation capacity
having tariff bid based PPAs (Case-l)/generation capacity tQ be
contracted through cost plus PPAs or through tariff bid based PPAs
(Case-I) in future:
a. A Ceiling Price of ClL Notified price for each coal block will be
fixed and the bidders will be mandated to quote lower than this Ceiling
Price. The Ceiling price shall be fixed at Run-of-Mine (ROM) price of
equivalent grade, as specified by ClL for the power sector. The bidder
quoting the lowest will be the successful bidd~r. This will be taken for
transfer price to the plant from the coal block. The resultant bid price
of coal will be escalable in line with a pre-specilied escalation formula
for the purpose of considering the energy charge. This method will
ensure that the benefit of lower bid price is passed through to the
consumers ..
b. The bid price of coal shall be considered as base for the year of
bidding and it shall be escalable with pre-determined formula that is
prescribed in now prevailing Standard Bidding Document for Case-l
bidding as formulated by MoP, for escalation of fuel cost from captive
mInes.
c. A fixed Reserve Price of Rs.l00 / - per tonne of coal shall be
payable, as per actual production by the successful allocattee. The
statutory royalty payable on coal will continue to be governed as per
extant rules i.e. at the ClL notilied price. Similarly, the reserve price
may also be escalable using the same formula as in 'b' above.
d. The successful allottee shall have to make upfront paYment @ 10
% of the intrinsic value of the coal block in 3 installments of 5%, 2.5%
and 2.5%, as prescribed in the bidding document. 
e., To ensure that, the benefit of coal is passed on to the consumers,
the following conditions has been prescribed:
I. For generation capacity having cost plus PPAs or
generation capacity to be contracted through cost plus PPAs
in future - For the purpose of determining the fuel cost for cost
, plus PPAs, the Appropriate Commission will allow bid price of
coal along with subsequent escalation as provided in coal block
bid document as being equivalent to the Run of Mine (ROM) cost
of coal together with other allowable expenses and levies,
provided that it shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout
the tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as
per the terms and conditions of the existing PPA.
II. For the generation capacity contracted through tariff
bid based PPAs (Case-I) - The Appropriate Commission 'shall
review the quoted energy charge keeping in view that the actual
bid price of coal along' with subsequent escalation as provided in
coal block biel document as being equivalent to Run of Mine
(ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory levies and other
permissible components of energy charge, provided that such
revision shall not lead to higher energy charge throughout the
tenure of PPA than that which would have been obtained as per
the terms and conditions of the existing PPA. For this purpose,
the allocation of coal block under the new provisions shall be
treated as "Change in Law" to enable the Appropriate Commission
to revise the tariff downwards in accordance with the provisions
of PPA.
III. For the generation capacity to be contracted through
tariff bid based PPAs (Case-I) in future - The Appropriate
Commission .shall while adopting the tariff under Section 63 of
the Electricity Act, 2003, ensure that the energy charge is derived
based on the actual bid price of coal along with -subsequent
escalation as provided in coal block bid document as being
equivalent to Run of Mine (ROM) cost of coal alongwith statutory
levies and other permissible components of energy charge.
IV. For this purpose Ministry of Power will make suitable
provisions in the Tariff policy and! or in the bidding
guidelines issued under the Electricity Act, 2003.
f. For power plant having uncontracted capacity, the bidder shall be
mandated to cap its merchant capacity at 15 % of the 
capacity linked to the allotted coal block for sale of power outside
medium and long term PPAs contracted under Section 62 or Section 63
of the Electricity Act, 2003. Further the bidder shall have to pay an
additional reserve price for the quantum of coal used for power sold in
the merchant market. The additional reserve price for coal used for
merchant sale of power shall be based on intrinsic value of the coal
block annuitized over the yearly production in Rs/tonne terms. The
intrinsic value can be arrived at with the existing approved methodology
for steel/sponge iron/cement sectors/captive power. The additional
Reserve Price shall not be less than Rs. 150/- per tonne. Further the
resultant additional reserve price (Rs/tonne) shall be considered as
base for the year of bidding with yearly escalation linked to the WPI.
5. Any further revision of ClL price after the bid due date would not have
any impact on the bid price of the blocks already bid as escalation on that
price has already he been provided for in. para 4.(b) above. For future bidding coal blocks, the chen prevailing CILpnce will be considered for determining ceiling price.
6. For auction/ allotment of coal blocks for the purpose of sale of coal as
provided in Section 4(2) of the Coal Mines (Special Pro'ision) Ordinance,
2014, a separate methodology will be form ulated.


