Sub: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/ abandoned/ closed before the year 2009.
A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before 2009 when 1st mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal. However, these guidelines were silent about them. There is a need to close these mines scientifically in such a manner that they provide benefit to the community, prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and repurposing of the mined-out land. Therefore, guidelines are being issued to provide guidance to all coal companies (including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines after the nationalization of coal mines till 27th August 2009 (date of issuance of first coal mines closure guidelines). Copy of the same is enclosed. The guidelines intend to only provide an overall framework for the closure of mines and the details of final implementation plans are to be finalized and approved by the respective Company Boards. The overall goal of the guidelines is to restore the mined-out land as far as possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and purposefully reutilise the land for the benefit of the country.
2.    It is requested to take further necessary action in compliance of these guidelines and submit ATR to this Ministry on Quarterly basis.
Subject: Guidelines for the Management of Mines discontinued/abandoned/closed before the year 2009
A large number of coal mines were discontinued/abandoned/closed before 2009 when 1st mine closure guidelines were issued by the Ministry of Coal. However, these guidelines were silent about them. There is a need to close these mines scientifically in such a manner that they provide benefit to the community, prevent illegal mining, ensure the safety and repurposing of the mined-out land. Therefore, the following guidelines are being issued to provide guidance to all coal companies (including lignite) having discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines after the nationalization of coal mines till 27th August 2009 (date of issuance of first coal mines closure guidelines). The guidelines intend to only provide an overall framework for the closure of mines and the details of final implementation plans are to be finalized and approved by the respective Company Boards. The overall goal of the guidelines is to restore the mined-out land as far as possible to its pre-mining stage, bring ecological balance and purposefully reutilise the land for the benefit of the country.
1.	Categorisation of non-operational mines -
In continuation to various circulars issued by DGMS and industry-accepted norms, the following categories will now be defined as specified below -
1.1. Discontinued Mines: Discontinued mines mean such working in a mine as have been discontinued for any reason and are inaccessible or rendered inaccessible but are likely to be worked again. These mines can be re-opened as per provisions of CMR (Reg.-6) and Colliery Control Amendment Rule-2021 (Rule no.9 (ii)).

1.2. Abandoned Mines: Abandoned mines mean such working as have been abandoned with no intention of working in the future for which the owner of the mine has already submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector, and District Magistrate about abandonment in the prescribed format (Reg. no. 5 of CMR, 2017).

1.3.Closed Mines: Closed mines are those mines for which the owner/agent/manager has submitted notice of closure in the prescribed format (under CMR-2017, Reg.-5) to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District Magistrate and has also obtained the mine closure certificate from Coal Controller (As per mine closure guidelines-2020).
However, prior to the implementation of Mine Closure guidelines-2009, closed mines may be considered as those mines for which the owner of the mine has already submitted a notice to the Chief Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector and District Magistrate about the closure in the prescribed format (Form-1 of Regulation - 6 of CMR-1957), and the extractable reserve as per mining plan has been exhausted.

2. Steps to be taken by mine owners to manage the non-operational mines - Discontinued/Abandoned mines -

2.1. Discontinued/Abandoned mines-
2.1.1. Mine re-operationalization: The owner of the mine shall explore possibilities to operationalize the concerned mines through various models, additional exploration if required and prepare a detailed action plan after due consultation ensuring transparency and objectivity. EC if required may be obtained following the guidelines of MOEFCC for reopening the mines.
2.1.2. Approval of the re-operationalization plan: The re-operationalization plan must be approved by the company board.
2.1.3. Modification in Mining Plan: Concerned Coal Company will modify the mining plan within 1 year of coming into force these guidelines if required.
2.1.4. Temporary mine closure plan: If the mine cannot be operationalized after initiatives taken under Para 2.1.1, then the owner of the mine shall prepare a temporary mine closure plan. A temporary mine closure plan would contain the mine closure activities such as protective works, safety measures, and any other required activity as per Para 8.10.1. of the Guidelines of preparation of Mining Plan & Mine Closure Plan dated 29th May 2020, in such a manner that if technology permits in the future, mining can be restarted. Mine owners should include short-term economic activities in the temporary closure plan without damaging the seams/reserves available.
2.1.5. Approval of temporary mine closure plan: The temporary closure plan must be approved by the company board. Also, the plan must include details of efforts undertaken to operationalize mine as per Para 2.1.1. The coal mine owners are required to obtain the approval for Temporary mine closure plan within one year from the date of issuance of these guidelines. In case temporary mine closure plan is not prepared by CMPDI, then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-ISM) etc. before submitting it to the Company Board.
2.1.6. Implementation of temporary closure plan: After the approval of the mine closure plan, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the temporary mine closure plan within 3 years, failing which appropriate action would be taken against the mine owner.
2.1.7. The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine, require certain activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/ amendment in the relevant legislation.
2.2.
Closed Mines -
2.2.1. Final mine closure plan: In the case of closed mines, the owner of the concerned mine shall prepare a Final mine closure plan. The Final Mine closure plan should be prepared as per the Guidelines for preparing the Mining Plan & Mine Closure plan dated 29th May 2020. However, only the mine closure part is to be prepared in case of these mines.

2.2.2. Approval of Final mine closure plan: The Final mine closure plan has to be approved by the company board. The mine owners shall ensure mine closure as per the mine closure plan approved by the Company Board. The coal mine owners are required to obtain the approval of the Final mine closure plan within one year from the date of issuance of these guidelines. In case final mine closure plan is not prepared by CMPDI, then it may be vetted by a third-party expert agency approved by the central government, like Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Ltd. (CMPDI), National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-ISM) etc. before submitting it to the Company Board.
2.2.3. Implementation of Final mine closure plan: After the approval of the Company Board, the owner of mine will carry out mine closure activities as detailed in the Final mine closure plan within 5 years failing which appropriate action would be taken against the mine owner.
2.2.4. Alternate use of reclaimed Land: After the closure of the mine, on the reclaimed land various project-specific economic repurposing activities can be carried out or reclaimed land to be leased out as per Ministry of Coal policy guidelines dated 22nd April 2022 for use of land acquired under the Coal Bearing Area (Acquisition & Development)
Act, 1957.
2.2.5. The Government may at any time before the closure of the mine require certain activities to be included in the mine closure plans, which it may consider necessary for the safety and conservation of the environment or in compliance with any modification/ amendment in the relevant legislation.
3. Social support measures -
3.1 The air, water, and soil quality of the region surrounding 5 km of the discontinued/ abandoned closed mines should be monitored as per MoEFCC/CPCB defined acceptable standards and it is mandated to ensure that the closure plan must include all such activities needed to control the pollution from the concerned mines.
3.2 The health camps must be organized on monthly basis to monitor the health of the population residing within 5 km of the discontinued/ abandoned/ closed mines with a special focus on respiratory diseases such as silicosis etc. The identified patients must be linked to local health administration for further treatment if required.
3.3 A careful consideration is to be given to provide reskilling to the willing workers as per their need for their gainful employment.

4. Financial provision-
The financial provision for the closure activities of both temporary and final mine closure plans of the mines is to be made by the respective Coal Companies. Closure cost is to be estimated based on the required activities as per para 8.10.1 of guidelines for the preparation of the Mining Plan and Mine Closure Plan dated 29th May 2020 for implementing the approved closure plan. However, Coal India Ltd. may consider to levy additional fee on per tonne basis to be paid by the coal consumers to meet the cost of mine closure with the approval of Board and to provide funding for those subsidiaries which are not able to fund the closure of these mines.

5. Exceptions -
5.1   In certain cases, there are more than one mine below the same surface land. One mine. may have been closed due to exhaustion of resources but other mines are running. In such cases, final mine closure activities related surface land may have to be deferred till the closing of all the mines.
5.2 A mine can be planned and worked covering only a part of a Coal Block. The present mine can be extended to cover the remaining part of the Coal Block in the future. Hence, Final Mine Closure activities for the present mine area may be deferred.
5.3 However, progressive closure activities are to be carried out as per Mine closure guidelines 2020 for both the above cases.
6. Maintenance of records & submission of returns -
The owner shall maintain all the records of works done for the closure of the mine and keep them available till the final closure certificate is obtained from the competent authority. DGPS survey of Abandoned/Discontinued mines linked t the national grid to be kept available.
7. Monitoring-
CCO to carry out the inspection of all the mines, check the records maintained by the owner of the work done and give written observation. Concerned mine authorities. should submit compliance to the observations made. Also, Coal companies are to submit a quarterly report of work done towards closure to CCO. The Ministry of Coal will do a quarterly review of the progress of the closure of mines.
8. Nothing in present guidelines shall absolve the owner of the mine from fulfilling various statutory requirements under other applicable statutes and obligations. Further, guidelines are without any prejudice to any other relevant rules and regulations, such as those issued by the state government, Ministry of environment, forest & climate change, Ministry of Labour, and employment.

Subject: Methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs of
Power Sector with some flexibility in utilization of coal extracted
from the coal mines allotted under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 for optimum utilization of coal mine for the
same end uses in the public interest and to achieve cost efficiencies
The undersigned is directed to refer to the subject mentioned above
and to say that an Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) has been
constituted under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary (Coal) to
devise methodology to provide the coal block allottee PSUs with some
flexibility in utilization of coal extracted from the coal mines allotted
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 {CM(SP) Act, 2015}
for optimum utilization of coal mine for the same end uses in the public
interest and to achieve cost efficiencies. The 1st meeting of IMC was
held on 07.08.2017 at 3:00 PM in the conference room of Ministry of
Coal. IMC recommended that to start with, methodology for
arrangement between two allottee PSUs which have been allotted coal
mines under the provisions of CM(SP) Act, 2015 would be considered.
2. In view of the methodology deliberated by IMC in its first meeting
and comments of Ministry of Power received vide No. FU-17/2017-IPC
dated 30.08.2017 thereon, the following methodology has been
approved by this Ministry:
a. The arrangement (s) / agreements (s) shall be in accordance with
Section 20 (1) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 read
with Rules 19 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014.
b. The present methodology has been formulated for arrangement (s)/
agreements (s) that may be entered between a PSU (hereinafter
referred to as "the PSU") which has been allotted coal mine(s) under
the provisions of CM (SP) Act, 2015 on the one hand and "other PSU"
which has either been allotted coal mine (s) or granted coal linkage (s)
for same end uses on the other. The scope of such
arrangement/agreement may include transfer of coal by the PSU to
other PSU in lieu of coal or power generated from such coal.
c. Arrangement for optimum utilization of coal mine with a company
which is not a successful bidder or allottee or has not been granted
coal linkage(s) is not allowed as such an arrangement is not
permissible as per the CM(SP) Act, 2015.
d. The agreement(s)/arrangement(s) as provided in the Section 20(1)
of the CM (SP) Act, 2015 should be for optimum utilization of the coal •
mine, for the same end uses, in the public interest and to achieve cost
efficiencies. The overall objective should be to reduce the cost of
power.
e. To achieve transparency, the particulars mentioned in Rule 19(2) of
CMSP Rules, 2014 should be displayed on the website of PSU allottee.
f. Before making an application to the Ministry of Coal, both the parties
to the arrangement should categorically certify the following regarding
the proposed arrangements:
i. Such arrangement results in optimum utilisation of coal mine.
ii. Such arrangement achieves cost efficiencies.
iii. Such arrangement is in public interest.
g. The application for the proposed arrangement (s)/ agreement (s)
shall contain full justification, calculations and the basis of arriving at
the conclusions in above para. The relevant calculations showing the
reduction in cost of power before and after the proposed agreement
(s)/ arrangement (s) should also be enclosed. The proposal so received
would be examined by a Technical Committee (TC) that may be
constituted or a Transaction Advisor (TA) that may be appointed for the
purpose. The report containing recommendations of TC/TA shall be sent
to MoP for comments. Upon receiving the comments/recommendation
from MoP, MoC shall take a decision on the proposed arrangement (s)/
agreement (s).
h. The parties would be required to furnish such additional information
as may be required.
i. Since the arrangement (s)/ agreement (s) under Section 20(1) are to
be in public interest, these should result in reduction in cost of power.
j. CERC/SERC while determining tariff, shall ensure that the benefits of
such arrangements are passed on to the consumers.
k. In case of coal being transferred in lieu of power generated from
such coal,
i. all the power generated from the transferred coal under the
arrangement(s)/agreement (s) shall be supplied to "the PSU" or its
beneficiary Discom(s) as the first right of "the PSU " provided that
any power not requisitioned by the PSU or its beneficiary Discom(s
) shall be treated as per the provisions of the Tariff Policy notified
by Ministry of Power under section 3 of the Electricity Act,
2003 or as may be notified by Ministry of Power.
ii. The landed cost of power generated and delivered to the "the
PSU" (or its beneficiary Discom) transferring coal shall include
corresponding fixed charges, variable charges and transmission
charges at the periphery of the beneficiary Discom of "the PSU"
transferring coal and should be cheaper than the variable charge
for generation from the existing options of using coal in plant(s)
owned by "the PSU". This condition would be applicable where the
coal proposed to be transferred is being utilized in an existing
plant by "the PSU" transferring coal and such transfer of coal
would result into backing down the generation from that plant.
The condition may not be insisted upon where the PSU transfers
the coal which is more than normative requirement of linked EUPs.
I. Except in accordance with the arrangement/agreement approved
under this policy or in accordance with the respective allotment
agreement /CMDPA, no trading or sale of coal shall be allowed since
coal mines have been allotted for specified end use.
m. Monitoring of the agreement(s)/arrangement(s) with regard to coal
production would be done by CCO, with regard to power generated
and delivered would be done by CEA, and with regard to tariffs by
concerned regulators.
n. The arrangements should be worked out in consultation with the
Railways, if it involves transport of coal by rail mode.
o. An inter-ministerial sub-group consisting of representatives from
Ministry of Power, Ministry of Coal, Ministry of Railways, CEA and
POSOCO would be constituted to look into various operational issues
arising during implementation of this scheme. The sub-group would
meet at least quarterly and the methodology will be reviewed
periodically for amendments, if any, based on the experience gained
during the process.
3. This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.



Whereas the Central Government, vide Section 8, sub-section (5) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) allows any lessee, where coal or lignite is used for captive purpose, to sell such coal or lignite up to fifty per cent. of the total coal or lignite produced in a year, on payment of an additional amount and after meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government; 
Whereas in exercise of powers conferred by Section 13, the Government has prescribed the manner for this purpose in rule 27A of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960; 
 	Now, in exercise of powers conferred by proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 8 of the Act, the 
Central Government hereby increases the percentage of coal, as tabulated below, that may be sold by NLC India Limited, up to 75 percent of coal produced from Talabira II and III OCP up to 31st March, 2026, after meeting the requirement of their end use plants linked with these mines, in the manner prescribed and in observance of conditions indicated in rule 27A of Mineral Concession Rules, 1960. 
Year 	Estimated coal production 	EUP requirement 	Balance quantity of coal approved for sale 
2021-22 	10 	2.5 	7.5 (75%) 
2022-23 	20 	5.0 	15 ( 75%) 
2023-24 	20 	5.0 	15 ( 75%) 
2024-25 	20 	5.0 	15 ( 75%) 
2025-26 	20 	5.0 	15 ( 75%) 

 
 
 In the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways number S.O.1766(E), dated the 5th June, 2020, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 5th June, 2020, in the English version :- (a) on page 2, 
(i)	In line 1, for “Ministry of Road Transport and Highways”, read “Ministry of Coal”;
(ii)	  In line 6, for “powersof”, read “powers of”; 
(iii)	 In line 7, for “Actin”, read “Act in”; 
(iv)	 In line 8, for “alsobe”, read “also be"; 
(v)	 In line 8, for “thenominated”, read “the nominated”; (b) on page 3, in line 5, for “Governmenton”, read “Government on”.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 26 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby directs that on and from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette,the powersof the Central Government under section 11A of the said Actin accordance with the Coal Bocks Allocation Rules, 2017 shall alsobe exercisable by thenominated authority appointed under section 6 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (No. 11 of 2015).  
2.	Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the nominated authority shall— 
(i)	call for all information necessary from any person or authority in relation to any coal or lignite block, including records in relation to the mineral reserves, production, costs of production, mine infrastructure and the like and prepare block dossier;  
(ii)	prepare tender document, auction and allotment conditions, model agreement to be entered with the successful allocatees or any other documents required for conduct of auction and allotment; 
(iii)	after conducting the allocation process, declare the name of preferred bidder or preferred allottee and forward its recommendations to the Central Government for approval; 
(iv)	upon receipt of the direction from the Central Government, enter into agreement related to block development and production with the successful allocatee or cancel the allocation process; (v) execute the allocation order; 
(vi)	inform the relevant Central Government authorities and State Government authorities to act in pursuance of the allocation order and the provisions of the Act and rules framed thereunder;  
(vii)	take requisite steps for the collection of auction proceeds and the amounts realised from allotment; 
(viii)	collect performance bank guarantee from the successful allocatee and invoke such bank guarantee in accordance with the terms of allocation;  


(ix)	call for information from the relevant statutory authorities under the Act and any rules made or regulations framed thereunder;  
(x)	open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions; and (xi) 	engage experts and advisors to assist it in discharge of its functions. 
3.	The nominated authority shall be bound by the written direction given by the Central Governmenton the question of policy. 
 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 26 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) and in supersession of the notifications of the Government of India, Ministry of Coal published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Subsection (ii) vide number S.O.2265 (E), dated the 4th June, 2018, except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby directs that,— 
1.(a) on and from the date of publication of this notification and upto the expiry of a period of nine months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, the power to approve mining plan for all categories of coal and lignite and sand mining for stowing, exercisable by the Central Government under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act, shall also be exercisable by the Project Adviser, Ministry of Coal; 
(b) on and from the expiry of aperiod of nine months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, the power to approve mining planfor all categories of coal and lignite and sand mining for stowing, exercisable by the Central Government under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act, shall also be exercisable by the Coal Controller, Kolkata, (Coal Controller’s Organization being a subordinate office of the Government of India in the Ministry of Coal).
 2. On and from the date of publication of this notification, any person aggrieved by any orders made or directions issued in respect of mining plan by an officer designated above may, apply to Secretary to Government of India, Ministry of Coal, for revision of such order made or directions issued thereon.
WHEREAS, the draft Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 proposing to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were published in in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 249 (E), dated the 13th April, 2020, inviting objections and suggestions, if any, to the Government of India, Ministry of Coal within thirty days from the date on which the said notification was made available to the public; 
AND WHEREAS objections and suggestions received from the public have been considered;  
NOW, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special 
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely:— 
1.	Short title and commencement.— (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2.	In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules):— 
(i)	throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in the preamble, for the words, brackets and figures, ―Coal 
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014)‖, the words, brackets and figures ―Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) shall be substituted; and  
(ii)	throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in clause (j) of sub-rule (1) of rule 2, for the word, ―Ordinance‖, the word ―Act‖ shall be substituted. 
3. In the principal rules, rule 2, sub-rule (1),  
(i)	for clause (a), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:— 
 	‗(a) ―Act‖ means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015); 
 (aa) ―additional levy‖ has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) section 3 of the 
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);  
(ab) ―affiliate‖ with respect to any person shall mean any other person who, directly or indirectly:— 
(i)	controls such person; or 
(ii)	is controlled by such person; or 
(iii)	is controlled by the same person who, directly or indirectly, controls such person; or (iv) is an associate company of such person. 
Explanation— For the purpose of this clause "associate company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); 
(ac) ―allocation‖ means allotment and auction referred together; 
(ad) ―allotment‖ means allotment of coal blocks referred to in section 5 of the Act;‘; 
(ii)	after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:— 
‗(ca) ―auction‖ means the public auction by competitive bidding of Schedule I coal mines under section 4 of the Act; 
(cb) ―bidder‖ means a company or corporation which participate in auction of coal mine;‘; 
(iii)	after clause (d), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:— 
‗(da) ―ceiling price‖ means a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a coal mine which is to be allocated by way of reverse auction; 
(db) ―coal linkage‖ means a contract entered between coal producing Government company or corporation and consumer for supply of coal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant fuel supply agreement; 
(dc) ―control‖ shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including 
12
by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner;‘; 
(iv)	in clause (f), for the words ―the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of auction‖, the words ―a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of forward auction‖ shall be substituted; 
(v)	after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:— 
‗(fa) ―forward auction‖ means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote the bid higher than the floor price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document; 
(fb) ―group company‖ means a company which is an affiliate of another company;‖  
(fc) ―infrastructure special purpose vehicle‖ means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by the Central Government for the purposes of Ultra Mega Power Projects and shall – 
(i)	hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project and grant the said land under lease or licence to the operating special purpose vehicle; 
(ii)	hold the allocation of the domestic captive coal block and grant the mining, development and operation rights of the said domestic captive coal block to the operating special purpose vehicle; 
(fd) ―operating special purpose vehicle‖ means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by the Central Government for the purpose of an Ultra Mega Power Project and shall – 
(i)	be transferred to the awardee of an Ultra Mega Power Project on the basis of competitive bids for tariff for the execution of the Ultra Mega Power Projects; 
(ii)	execute the power purchase agreement with the distribution licensees for execution of the Ultra Mega Power Project; 
(iii)	hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project on lease basis acquired in the name of infrastructure special purpose vehicle; act as a mine development operator of the captive coal mine allocated to the infrastructure special purpose vehicle;‘; 
(vi)	clause (j) shall be omitted; 
(vii)	after clause (j) so omitted, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:— 
‗(ja) ―person‖ shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not; 
(jb) ―preferred allottee‖ means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 11; 
(jc) ―preferred bidder‖ means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 10; 
(jd) ―reverse auction‖ means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote the bid lower than the ceiling price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;‘; 
(viii)	in clause (k), for the words and figure ―the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of allotment‖, the words and figure ―a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of allotment or by way of reverse auction‖ shall be substituted; 
(ix)	for clause (m), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:— 
‗(m) ―successful allocatee‖ means the successful bidder and successful allottee referred together; 
(ma) ―successful allottee‖ means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 11 or a company, or as the case may be, corporation to whom coal mine has been allotted in pursuance of rule 12; 
(mb) ―successful bidder‖ means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (10) of rule 10;‘; 
(x)	after clause (o), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 
‗(p) ―Ultra Mega Power Project‖ shall mean a power project based on supercritical coal thermal technology or more efficient technology, with installed capacity of 3960 Mega Watt (MW) or above or such other capacity as may be specified by the Central Government, from which power procurement is tied up by procurers in more than one State or Union territory, through tariff based competitive bidding initiated through a Central Government initiative under the Guidelines for Determination of Tariff Through Transparent Process of Bidding for Procurement of Power from Ultra Mega Power Projects notified by Central Government under section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003)‘. 
13
4.	In the principal rules, in rule 7, in sub-rule (2), in clause (p), for the words and figures, ―Schedule II coal mine;‖, the words and figures, ―Schedule II coal mine and on the date of termination of vesting order or allotment order in case of a coal mine under production;‖ shall be substituted. 
5.	In the principal rules, in rule 8, in sub-rule (2),—  
(i)	in the opening portion, for the words ―regarding the following‖, the words ―specifying the following‖ shall be substituted;   
(ii)	clause (b) shall be omitted.; 
(iii)	after clause (b) so omitted, the following shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(ba) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal, or for sale of coal. 
Explanation— For the purposes of this clause, own consumption may include consumption of coal in any specified end use or in any combination of specified end uses.‖; 
(iv)	in clause (c), for the words ―conducting auction or allotment‖, the words ―conducting allotment or conducting auction including by way of forward auction or reverse auction‖ shall be substituted. 
 
6. In the principal rules, in rule 10,— 
(i)	in sub-rule (3),— 
(a)	for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—  
―(a) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal, or for sale of coal; ‖; 
(b)	for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—  
―(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price in case of forward auction or the ceiling price in case of reverse auction, reserve price in case of reverse auction, eligibility conditions, the process of conduct of auction and other related information;‖; 
(c)	for clause (e), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—  
―(e) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder as specified in subrule (5) of rule 13.‖; 
(ii)	in sub-rule (4),— 
(a)	in clause (b), after sub-clause (B), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(C) The financial bid stage may be divided into such sub-stages or rounds as may be deemed expedient by the Central Government.‖; 
(b)	in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c), for the words ―provide security, guarantee.‖, the words ―bid security in the form of bank guarantee.‖ shall be substituted;  
(c)	clause (d) shall be omitted; 
(iii)	after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(4A) In cases where auction of a coal mine has been conducted under sub-section (3) of section (4) of the Act and a company has been declared successful bidder before the commencement of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020, then the entitlement of such successful bidder to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the mine allocated to such successful bidder. 
(4B) In cases of auction of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal conducted after the commencement of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 where a bidder having a coal linkage becomes the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage may be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in the tender document. 
(4C) In case the coal mine is specified for auction for the purpose of own consumption, then the capacity of the end use project for which a bidder is bidding shall be in such proportion to the capacity of coal block as may be specified in the tender document.‖; 
(iv)	in sub-rule (5), for the words ―or both that may be allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies‖, the words ―or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be 
auctioned to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies or its affiliate‖ shall be substituted; 
(v)	in sub-rule (9), for the words ―the nominated authority shall forward‖, the words ―the nominated authority shall declare the preferred bidder on the basis of the result of auction and shall forward‖ shall be substituted. 
7. In the principal rules, in rule 11— 
(i)	in sub-rule (2) for the words ―shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State‖, the words ―may specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be allotted to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies or its affiliate‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	in sub-rule (3), for the words ―shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document‖, the words ―shall prepare a document for the allotment process, that is, the allotment document‖ shall be substituted; (iii) in sub-rule (4),— 
(a)	for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—  
―(a) the purpose of allotment of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal or for sale of coal;‖; 
(b)	in clause (c) after the words ―eligibility conditions,‖, the words ―procedure for making application for allotment,‖ shall be inserted; 
(c)	after clause (c), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:— 
―Provided that in case the coal mine whose mining plan has not been prepared, the nominated authority may specify the reserve price after the allotment of coal block and preparation of mining plan for such mine; and the successful allottee shall furnish an undertaking as a part of the agreement, as specified in sub-rule (5) of rule 13, to pay the reserve price within the specified time, as may be specified by the nominated authority.‖; 
(d)	for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—  
―(d) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee as specified in sub-rule (5) of rule 13.‖; 
(iv)	in sub-rule (6),— 
(a)	clause (d) shall be omitted; 
(b)	in clause (g),—  
(i)	in the opening portion, for the words ―towards any specified end use‖, the words ―for own consumption‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	in sub-clause (iii), for the words ―the specified end-use‖, the words ―specified as the purpose‖ shall be substituted;  
(v)	for sub-rule (8), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:— 
―(8) The nominated authority shall declare the preferred allottee on the basis of the result of allotment process and shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the selection of the successful allottee.‖; 
(vi)	in sub-rule (10), for the words and figure ―Schedule I coal mine to a Central Government company or corporation.‖, the following shall be substituted, namely:— 
 	―Schedule I coal mine to,— 
(i)	a Government company or corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government, or 
(ii)	a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project): 
Provided that in case of allotment of a coal block to a Government company or corporation for 
utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the Central Government shall first issue an in-principle allotment letter for such coal block to such Government company or corporation recommended by the Government of India in the Ministry of Power before the competitive bidding for tariff and thereafter on successful award of power project, the final allotment order shall be issued in accordance with the process specified in rule 13.‖ 

 
(vii)	after sub-rule 10, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(11) In cases of allotment of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal where an applicant having a coal linkage becomes the successful allottee, then the entitlement of such successful allottee to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage may be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in the allotment document.‖. 
8. In the principal rules, for rule 12, the following shall be substituted, namely:— 
―12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the Government of India in the Ministry of power, which has been awarded power project on the basis of competitive bids for tariff) including Ultra Mega Power Projects), on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem expedient. 
(2) The Central Government may notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.‖. 
9. In the principal rules in rule 13,—  
(i)	in sub-rule (1), for the word ―allottee‖, the words ―successful allottee‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	in sub-rule (3), in clause (a), for the word ―proceeds‖, the word ―compensation‖ shall be substituted; (iii) in sub-rule (4),— 
(a)	in the opening portion, for the words ―successful bidder or allottee‖, the words ―successful allocatee‖ shall be substituted;  
(b)	in clause (ii), for the words ―till it reaches its peak rated capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as may be specified by the Central Government‖, the words ―as provided in the agreement specified in  sub-rule (5)‖ shall be substituted; 
(c)	after clause (iii), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:— 
―Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance Bank Guarantee shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.‖; 
(iv) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:— 
 ―(5A) The terms and conditions of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall be included in terms and conditions of the mining lease for the coal block along with any other terms and conditions that the Central Government or the State Government may deem fit under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall stand terminated. 
(5B) Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the successful allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank guarantee in favour of the State Government for the amount equivalent to the performance bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule (4) for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan: 
Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance bank guarantee shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power. 
(5C) The performance bank guarantee submitted under sub-rule (4) shall be returned to the successful allocatee after submission of performance bank guarantee under sub-rule (5B) or after sixty days of termination of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5), whichever is earlier.‖; 
(v) in sub-rule (6), for the words ―and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in force‖, the words ―and these rules, on recommendation of the State Government concerned in the event of breach of terms and conditions of reconnaissance permit, prospecting license, mining lease or prospecting license-cum-mining 
16
lease, in the event of cancellation of said concessions under any other law in force, or it is expedient in public interest to terminate the allocation in the opinion of the Central Government, for the reasons to be recorded in writing‖ shall be substituted. 
10. In the principal rules, in rule 14,— 
(i)	in the heading, the words ―to the prior allottee‖ shall be omitted; 
(ii)	in sub-rule(1), the words ―payable to the prior allottee‖, at both the places where they occur, shall be omitted. 
11. In the principal rules, in rule 15,—  
(a)	in the heading, for the words ―proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee‖, the word ―compensation‖ shall be substituted; 
(b)	in sub-rule (1),— 
(i)	for the words ―proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure‖, at both the places where they occur, the words ―compensation deposited by the successful allocattee with the nominated authority‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 
 	―(c) amount payable to the prior allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mine.‖. 
12.	In the principal rules, for rule 17, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:— 
―17. Re-auction and re-allotment.— In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rules 10, 11 or 12, or the vesting order or allotment order in respect of any Schedule I coal mine is terminated, as the case may be, the nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate auction under rule10 or allotment of the coal mine under rule 11 or rule 12, subject to such order as the Central Government may deem fit to issue under rule 8.‖. 
13.	In the principal rules, in rule 19,— 
(i)	in sub-rule (1), the words ―or a coal linkage holder‖ shall be omitted; 
(ii)	in sub-rule (2), after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(d) details of coal linkages of the parties, if any.‖; 
(iii)	after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(2A) Before applying, the parties shall ensure that all parties to the arrangement or agreement are otherwise eligible for the allocation of the coal mine or grant of coal linkage, as the case may be, which are subject matter of such agreement or arrangement.‖; 
(iv)	after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(4A) The Central Government while granting its approval may impose any condition which shall be binding on the parties to such agreement or arrangement. 
(4B) Upon execution of such agreement or arrangement, the party carrying out the mining operations in the coal mine or receiving coal under coal linkage shall bear the liabilities in relation to such coal mine or coal linkage.‖; 
(v)	after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(6) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.‖. 
14. In the principal rules, in rule 20,—  
(i)	in sub-rule (1), for the words ―subsidiary company for common‖, the words ―holding company or its subsidiary company for same‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	after sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(4) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.‖. 
15. In the principal rules, in rule 26,— 
(a)	in sub-rule (1),—  
(i)	for the word ―may‖, the word ―shall‖ shall be substituted; 
(ii)	for the words and figure ―Schedule I coal mine‖, the words and figure ―Schedule II coal mine or a coal mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated,‖ shall be substituted; 
(b)	in sub-rule (2), the word and figure ―Schedule I‖ shall be omitted; 
(c)	in sub-rule (4), in clause (b), the word and figure ―Schedule I‖ shall be omitted. 
16.	In the principal rules, in rule 27, for sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:— 
―(3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine or a coal mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the relevant coal mine in trust for the designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of the relevant coal mine.‖.  
17.	In the principal rules, in rule 30, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:— 
―(1A) The powers conferred to a designated custodian under sub-rule (1) may also, mutatis mutandis, be exercised by designated custodian in respect of any mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated.‖ 
Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014 and lastly amended vide number S.O.  782(E), dated the 18th March, 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
