exercise of powers conferred by Section 13 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:- 
1. Short title and commencement.⸺(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession            (Amendment) Rules, 2021.
 (2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules they shall come into force on the date of their publication in Gazette of India. 2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules),in rule 2, in subrule (1), after clause (vii),the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-
 „(viia) “run-of-mine” means the raw, unprocessed or uncrushed material in its natural state obtained after blasting, digging, cutting or scraping from the mineralised zone of a lease area;‟.

 [F. No. 12012/2/2021-PS1] BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.
Note: The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 1398, dated the 23th November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R 331(E) dated the 29th May, 2020.
Explanatory Memorandum
Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957inserted through the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) empowers the Central Government to prescribe the period of existing mining leases and to extend the period of mining leases in case of Government companies or corporations. Accordingly, the period of existing mining leases has been prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 24C and the pending applications for renewal of mining leases shall be deemed to be applications for extension of period of mining lease in sub- rule (5) of rule 24C. It is certified that no person is being adversely affected by granting retrospective effect through these rules.
Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. ALOK KUMAR EINST
D20000

3. In the principal rules, after rule 24B the following rule shall be inserted, namely:- 
“24C. Period of mining lease granted to Government companies or corporations.—
 (1) All mining leases granted on or after the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 to a Government company or corporation for coal or lignite shall be for a period of fifty years. 
(2) All subsisting mining leases vested or granted to a Government company or corporation before commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 for coal or lignite shall be deemed to have been granted for fifty years or till 31st March 2030, whichever is later. 
(3) The State Government, upon an application made to it in this behalf by the Government company or corporation at least three months prior to the expiry of the mining lease, shall extend the period of the mining lease for a further period of twenty years at a time: 
Provided that the State Government may condone the delay in application for extension made after the prescribed time limit: Provided further that no extension of period of mining lease shall be granted to a Government company or corporation that has been selected through auction.
 (4) If an application for extension of mining lease made within the time mentioned in sub-rule (3) is not disposed of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that lease shall be deemed to have been extended till the State Government passes an order on the same. 
(5) All applications made by a Government company or corporation for renewal of mining lease which were pending as on the date of commencement of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) shall be deemed to be applications for extension of the period of the mining lease and shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of subrule (3).”. 
4. In the principal rules, after rule 27, the following rule shall be inserted, namely:-
 “27A. Manner of sale of coal or lignite by the lessee of a captive mine.⸺ (1)Any lessee may, where coal or lignite is used for captive purpose, sell coal or lignite up to such per cent. of the total coal or lignite produced in a financial year, as allowed under sub-section (5) of section 8, after meeting the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine.
 Explanation 1.- For the purpose of this rule it is clarified that the requirement of the end use plant linked with the mine for a financial year shall be the actual quantity of coal or lignite consumed in the said plant in that financial year or a part thereof. 
Explanation 2.- For the purpose of this rule, quantity of coal or lignite produced, sold, utilised in linked end-use plant and the payment of additional amount on the quantity sold shall be assessed on run-of-mine basis. 
Explanation 3.-Sale of any tailings, rejects or middlings shall not be restricted by this rule.
 (2) For the quantity of coal or lignite sold in accordance with sub-section (5) of section 8, the lessee shall pay to the State Government, at the time of payment of royalty, an additional amount as specified in the Sixth Schedule of the Act, which shall be in addition to royalty or payment to the District Mineral Foundation and National Mineral Exploration Trust or any other statutory payment or payment specified in the tender document or the auction premium, wherever applicable.
 (3) Within one month of the end of a financial year, for sale made in the previous financial year, the lessee shall submit to the Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal, Coal Controller‟s Organisation and to the State Government, a self-declaration in Form R. 
(4) Sale of coal shall not be allowed from the coal mines allotted to a company or corporation that has been awarded a power project on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Projects).”
 Explanation.-For the purpose of this rule, it is clarified that the provision for sale of coal or lignite as prescribed in this rule shall not affect the eligibility conditions and efficiency parameters prescribed in the respective agreements entered into by the lessee with the Central Government.
5. In the principal rules, for rule 28, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:-
 “28. Lapsing of Leases.⸺ (1) Where production and dispatch has not commenced within a period of two years from the date of execution of the mining lease or is discontinued for a continuous period of two years after commencement of production or dispatch, the mining lease shall lapse on the expiry of the period of two years from the date of execution of the lease or as the case may be, discontinuance of the production and dispatch.
 (2) The lapsing of the mining lease shall be recorded through an order issued by the State Government and shall also be communicated to the lessee.
 (3) Where a lessee is unable to commence the production and dispatch within a period of two years from the date of execution of the mining lease or discontinuation of production and dispatch for reasons beyond his control, he may submit an application to the State Government, requesting for an extension of such period of two years by a further period not exceeding one year, explaining the reasons for the same, at least three months before the expiry of such period of two years: Provided where the lessee has failed to make the application within the time stipulated above, the lease shall lapse on expiry of the period of two years. 
(4) Application made under sub-rule (3) shall specify⸺
 (a) the reasons on account of which it will not be possible for the lessee to undertake mining operations or continue production and dispatch;
 (b) the manner in which such reasons are beyond the control of the lessee; 
(c) the steps that have been taken by the lessee to mitigate the impact of such reasons; and 
(d) the period of extension sought. 
(5) Every application under sub-rule (3) shall be accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees.
 (6) The State Government shall, after examining the application, pass an order, within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the application made under sub-rule (3) or the date on which the mining lease would have otherwise lapsed, whichever is earlier, either granting or rejecting such request: Provided that such mining lease shall lapse on failure to undertake production and dispatch or inability to continue production and dispatch within the extended period of one year: Provided further that such extension shall not be granted for more than once during the entire period of lease. 
(7) The State Government shall communicate to the Coal Controller‟s Organisation, Nominated Authority and Ministry of Coal the order recorded under sub-rule (2) or issued under sub-rule (6)within fifteen days of recording or issuing of such order.”.
 6. In the principal rules, rule 28A shall be omitted. 
7. In the principal rules, for rule 64B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:- 
“64B. Charging and instance of payment of royalty in case of minerals subjected to processing.⸺ The royalty shall be charged on run-of-mine coal or lignite irrespective of its processing within or outside the leased area:
 Provided that the royalty shall be payable at the time of dispatch from or consumption within the leased area.”
8. In the principal rules, rule 64C shall be omitted.
 9. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form Q, the following Form shall be inserted, namely:-

Explanatory Memorandum
 Sub-section (4) of Section 8 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957inserted through the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 (16 of 2021) empowers the Central Government to prescribe the period of existing mining leases and to extend the period of mining leases in case of Government companies or corporations. Accordingly, the period of existing mining leases has been prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 24C and the pending applications for renewal of mining leases shall be deemed to be applications for extension of period of mining lease in subrule (5) of rule 24C. It is certified that no person is being adversely affected by granting retrospective effect through these rules.
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 and clauses (d), (da), (db) and (dc) of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules to amend the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017, namely:— 
1. (1) These rules may be called the Coal Blocks Allocation (Amendment) Rules, 2020.
 (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
 2. In the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the said rules), in rule 2, in sub-rule (1),—
 (i) in clause (d), for the words and figure “the proviso to section 11A of the Act”, the words “the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted; 
(ii) in clause (j), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be substituted;
 (iii) in clause (o), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be substituted

(iv) in clause (x), for the words “the price”, the words “a price or percentage” shall be substituted. 
3. In the said rules, in rule 3, in sub-rule (1), in clause (b), for the words and figure “the proviso to section 11A of the Act”, the words and figures “the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted. 
4. In the said rules, in rule 5,—
 (I) in sub-rule (5),— 
(i) in clause (e), for the words “as may be specified”, the words “as may be specified in the tender document” shall be substituted; 
(ii) in clause (f), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or parent company”, the words “or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its holding company or subsidiary company” shall be substituted;
 (II) in sub-rule (8),— 
(i)	the words “for the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful bidder” shall be omitted; 
(ii)	 for the words “as may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as may be specified by the Central Government in the tender document” shall be substituted.
 5. In the said rules, in rule 6,—
 (a) in sub-rule (4), in clause (g), for the words “or both that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or associate companies”, the words “or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be allocated to a company or corporation or its holding company or subsidiary company or associate companies or group companies or its affiliate” shall be substituted; 
(b) in sub-rule (5),—
 (i) the words “for the end use plant on the basis of which it became a successful allottee” shall be omitted; 
(ii) for the words “as may be specified by the Central Government”, the words “as may be specified by the Central Government in the allotment document” shall be substituted. 
6. In the said rules, in rule 7, for the words and figure “the proviso to section 11A of the Act”, the words and figures “the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Act” shall be substituted. 7. In the said rules, in rule 8,— 
(i) in sub-rule (6), after the words “or mining lease”, the words “or prospecting licence-cummining lease” shall be inserted; 
(ii) in sub-rule (7), for the words “upon grant of the mining lease”, the words “upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004” shall be substituted; (iii) in sub-rule (8), for the opening portion beginning with the words “The State Government concerned” and ending with the words “as per the mining plan:” the following shall be substituted, namely:— 
“Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the successful allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank guarantee in favour of the State Government for the amount equivalent to the performance bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule (4) for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan:” 
(iv) in sub-rule (10),— 
(a)	in clause (d), for the words “mining lease”, the words “reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease” shall be substituted;
(b) in clause (e), for the words “mining lease”, the words “reconnaissance permit, prospecting licence, mining lease or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease” shall be substituted. 
8. In the said rules, in rule 10,— 
(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words “the successful allocatee or coal linkage holder shall”, the words “the successful allocatee shall” shall be substituted; 
(ii) in sub-rule (2), the words “or a coal linkage holder” shall be omitted.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 of the Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
further to amend the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, namely:—
1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules,
2020.
(2) Save as otherwise provided in these rules, they shall come into force on the date of their publication in the
Official Gazette.
2. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules), for rule 2, the
following rule shall be substituted, namely:—
‘2. Definitions.—(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(i) “Act” means the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957);
(ii) “block boundary” shall mean the geographical boundary of the coal or lignite block expressed by way of coordinates
specified in the allocation order issued under section 11A of the Act or a notification of reservation
issued under section 17A of the Act or vesting order or allotment order issued under the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11of 2015) or any other instrument or order issued under any other law in force entitling a
person to carry out prospecting or mining operations;
(iii) “Form” means a form specified in Schedule I to these rules;
(iv) “geological report” means the detailed report prepared upon completion of prospecting operations in any area
containing coal or lignite comprising of all geological, geophysical, exploration, core coal or lignite analysis,
hydrological, geo-engineering and other information regarding exploration, location or proof of mineral deposits,
acquired during the prospecting operations conducted in such area and includes drilling log;
(v) “illegal mining” means any reconnaissance or prospecting or mining operation undertaken by any person or a
company in any area without holding a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or as the case may be, a
mining lease as required under sub-section(1) of section 4 of the Act.
Explanation.— For the purpose of this clause,—
(a) violation of any rules, other than the rules made under section 23C of the Act, within the mining lease area by
a holder of a mining lease shall not include illegal mining;
(b) any area granted under a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence or a mining lease, as the case may be
shall be considered as an area held with lawful authority by the holder of such permit of licence or a lease, while
determining the extension of illegal mining;
(vi) “project proponent” shall include an allocatee of the coal block under section 11A of the Act or a Government
company or corporation in whose favour an area containing coal or lignite is reserved under section 17A of the
50 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
Act or a successful bidder or an allottee of a coal mine under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of
2015) or any other project proponent having right under any other law in force to carry out prospecting operations
or mining operations for coal or lignite;
(vii) “railway” and “railway administration” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Indian
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890);
(viii) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these rules;
(x) “section” means a section of the Act.
(2) The words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act or in the Coal Block Allocation
Rules, 2017 made thereunder or in the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) or the rules made
thereunder shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the said Acts or the rules.”.
3. In the principal rules, in rule 8,—
(a) for the words and figure “and Chapter IV”, the words, figures and letter “, Chapter IV and Chapter IVA” shall
be substituted; and
(b) for the words “and mining leases”, the words “, mining leases and prospecting licence-cum-mining leases”
shall be substituted.
4. In the principal rules, after Chapter III, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely:—
“CHAPTER IIIA
Geological Reports
21A. Applicability.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter III, Chapter V and Chapter VI of these
rules, the provisions of this chapter shall apply in respect of all land containing coal or lignite.
(2) On and from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, conduct of prospecting
operations and preparation of geological report in respect of any area containing coal or lignite shall be governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
21B. Prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—(1) For conduct of prospecting operations
and preparation of geological report, a project proponent may—
(i) engage any person upon obtaining prospecting licence or prospecting licence-cum-mining lease from the
State Government;
(ii) engage an entity specified in or notified by the Central Government under the second proviso of subsection
(1) of section 4 of the Act; or
(iii) engage any Accredited Prospecting Agency, notified under second proviso to sub-section (1) of section 4
of the Act.
(2) Every prospecting operation shall be undertaken and geological report prepared in accordance with Indian
Standard Procedure for Coal Resource Estimation issued by the Central Geological Programming Board of
Geological Survey of India or any other standard procedure specified by the Central Government.
(3) Every person, entity or agency conducting the prospecting operations under sub-rule (1), shall submit a report
of the work done by it during each half of financial year, stating the number of persons and machineries engaged
and disclosing the complete geological data, geophysical data and all other information collected during the period
to the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited, a Government company and to the State Government
within three months from the close of the half year to which it relates.
(4) On the completion or abandonment of prospecting operations or termination of the prospecting licence,
whichever is earlier, such person, entity or agency shall also submit a report of the work done along with all
information relevant to mineral resources acquired by it in the course of prospecting operations.
(5) The project proponent as well as the person, entity or agency, as the case may be, referred to in sub-rule (1),
shall be responsible for the data furnished in the geological report.

21C. Accreditation system for prospecting operations and preparation of geological report.—The QCINABET
shall grant accreditation to Accredited Prospecting Agency for undertaking prospecting operations and
preparation of geological report in accordance with standards and procedures specified in Schedule VI of these
rules.”.
5. In the principal rules, in rule 22,—
(i) in sub-rule (4), the portion beginning with the words “On the receipt of the application” and ending with the
words “the Central Government for its approval.” shall be omitted; and
(ii) sub-rules (4A), (4B), (5) and (6) shall be omitted.
6. In the principal rules, for rule 22A, the following rules shall be substituted, namely:—
“22A.— Mining operations to be in accordance with mining plan— On and from the expiry of a period of nine
months from the commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020,—
(a) no mining operations shall be undertaken except in accordance with the mining plan, which—
(i) has been approved under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and in accordance with rule
22B; or
(ii) is in accordance with the system established by the State Government for preparation, certification and
monitoring of mining plan under the proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act and
rule 22AA:
Provided that the mining operations shall continue to be governed by the existing mining plan approved prior to
commencement of the Mineral Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2020, until the same is modified;
(b) any modification in the existing mining plan during the operation of a mining lease shall also be done in
accordance with clause (a).
22AA.— System to be established by the State Government for mining plan—(1) The system to be
established by the State Government under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of rule 22A for preparation, certification
and monitoring of mining plan shall be submitted to the Central Government for approval.
(2) The State Government shall seek previous approval of the Central Government for any modification of the
system.
(3) The Central Government shall dispose of, with or without modifications, the proposals received from the State
Government for approval of system referred in sub-rule (1) or modification of a system referred in sub-rule (2),
within a period of three months from the date of receipt of such proposal:
Provided that the Central Government may revoke such approval for reasons to be recorded in writing and duly
communicated to the State Government.”.
7. In the principal rules, for rule 22B, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—
“22B. Preparation and approval of mining plan.— (1) Every mining plan other than those covered under the
proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Act shall be prepared and submitted for approval under
this rule, within a period of six months of the preparation of geological report:
Provided that in cases where geological report has been prepared prior to issuance of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order or notification of reservation under section 17A of the Act, and the said geological report
is in accordance with sub-rule (2) of rule 21B, the period of six months for preparation and submission of mining
plan shall be reckoned from the date of such allocation order, vesting order, allotment order or notification, as the
case may be.
(2) For preparation of mining plan under sub-rule (1), a project proponent may engage,—
(i) a person having the following qualifications and experience, namely:—
(a) a degree in mining engineering or a degree in opencast mining or a degree in mining machinery or a postgraduate
degree in geology granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a
Provincial Act or a State Act, including any institutions recognised by the University Grants Commission under
section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institution outside India and recognised by Government of India, and
(b) professional experience of five years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after obtaining
the degree; or
52 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(ii) a Mining Plan Preparing Agency accredited for preparation of mining plan by the QCI-NABET.
(3) The QCI-NABET shall grant accreditation in accordance with standards and procedures prescribed in Schedule
VI of these rules.
(4) Every mining plan shall be prepared,—
(i) on the basis of a geological report prepared in accordance with rule 21B;
(ii) in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government in this regard; and
(iii) for an area within the block boundary:
Provided that the mining plan may cover an area beyond the block boundary not containing coal or lignite on a
certificate issued to that effect by the State Government and that it intends to grant mining lease for such extended
area.
(5) The project proponent and the qualified person or the Mining Plan Preparing Agency shall be responsible,—
(i) for the data furnished in the mining plan;
(ii) that the mining plan has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central
Government in this regard by a person possessing the qualifications and experience specified in clause (i)
of sub-rule (2) or by a Mining Plan Preparing Agency.
(6) The project proponent shall submit the mining plan for approval to such officer or authority as may be notified
by the Central Government, accompanied with the following, namely:––
(i) such non-refundable fee as may be specified by the Central Government; and
(ii) a certificate from the project proponent to the effect that the area covered in the mining plan is not
beyond the block boundary or in case the area covered under the mining plan extends beyond the block
boundary, a certificate issued by the State Government as specified in the proviso to clause (iii) of subrule
(4).
(7) Such officer or authority shall, within a period of thirty days from the date of receiving the mining plan, grant
approval or direct correction in the mining plan or pass any such order as it may deem fit:
Provided that the aforesaid period of thirty days shall be applicable only if the mining plan is complete in all
respects and in case any modification is directed by such officer or authority after the initial submission of the
mining plan for approval, the said period shall be applicable from the date of submission of the revised mining
plan.
(8) A project proponent aggrieved by any order made or direction under sub-rule (7) may, within thirty days of the
communication of such order or direction, apply to the Central Government for a revision of such order or
direction thereof.
(9) On receipt of an application for revision, the Central Government shall give a hearing to the aggrieved project
proponent and may confirm, modify or set aside the order or direction within thirty days and the decision of the
Central Government in this regard shall be final.”.
8. In the principal rules, rules 22BB and 22C shall be omitted.
9. In the principal rules, after rule 22D, the following rules shall be inserted, namely:—
“22E. Modification of approved mining plan.—(1) Subject to provisions of sub-rule (3), in case of any
modification in the approved mining plan, the project proponent shall submit the modified mining plan in
accordance with rule 22B for approval of the officer or authority notified under sub-rule (6) of rule 22B.
(2) The modification under sub-rule (1) shall be on any of the following grounds, namely:—
(i) change in method of mining;
(ii) for facilitating increase in sanctioned peak capacity that is in excess of one hundred and fifty per cent. of
the sanctioned rated capacity of the mine;
(iii) change in leased area;
(iv) in the interest of safe and scientific mining;
(v) conservation of minerals;
(vi) for the protection of environment;
 (vii) addition of reserve by way of proving of reserve in the existing lease area;
(viii) for change in final mine closure conditions; or
(ix) such other grounds as may be determined by the Central Government:
Provided that in case of allocated coal mines or blocks, prior approval of the nominated authority or the Central
Government shall be required for any modification in the mining plan which result in changes in the terms and
conditions or efficiency parameters specified in the agreement entered between the nominated authority or the
Central Government and the project proponent, as the case may be.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the project proponent may carry on the following minor
changes in the approved mining plan and submit specific proposal pursuant to such changes to the Coal Controller
with a copy to the Central Government for information, namely:—
(i) change in land type within the leased area;
(ii) change in heavy earth moving machinery deployment; or
(iii) change in location of infrastructure within the leased area.
22F. Misrepresentation.–– (1) Any misrepresentation by the project proponent in the mining plan, modification
or minor change in the mining plan or any other related documents submitted to the approving officer or authority
or the Central Government or the State Government, shall constitute contravention of these rules and render such
mining plan, modification or minor change as void.”.
10. In the principal rules, in rule 24, after sub-rule (5),the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
“(6) The State Government shall examine an application for grant of mining lease and pass an order in writing for
disposal of such application.”.
11. Amendment of rule 24A.— In the principal rules, in rule 24A, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall
be inserted, namely:—
“(2) If an application for renewal of a mining lease made within the time referred to in sub-rule (1) is not disposed
of by the State Government before the date of expiry of the lease, the period of that lease shall be deemed to have
been extended by a period of two years or till the State Government passes order thereon, whichever is earlier.”.
12. In the principal rules, after Chapter IV, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely:—
“CHAPTER IVA
PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE OF COAL AND
LIGNITE IN RESPECT OF LAND IN WHICH THE MINERALS VEST IN THE GOVERNMENT
40A. Applicability of this Chapter: The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the grant of prospecting
licence-cum-mining lease of coal and lignite in respect of land in which the minerals vest in the Government.
40B. Application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease.—(1) Upon grant of allocation order or vesting
order or allotment order, as the case may be, a successful allocatee shall make an application in Form Q for grant
of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease, along with such order and any other supporting documents before such
officer or authority as the State Government may specify:
Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any of the documents specified in this sub-rule:
Provided further that a successful allocatee may engage an entity under the second proviso of sub-section (1) of
section 4 of the Act, in which case, such allocatee shall apply for grant of mining lease after preparation of
geological report in accordance with rule 21B and approval of mining plan in accordance with rule 22B and the
provisions of Chapter IV shall apply on application, grant and conditions of such mining lease.
(2) Every application for the grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be accompanied by,—
(a) non-refundable fee of ten thousand rupees;
(b) all documents required for grant of a prospecting licence as specified under rule 9; and
(c) the security deposit specified under rule 20.
40C. Acknowledgement and disposal of application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease.—(1) Receipt
of an application for grant of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease shall be duly acknowledged by the State
Government.
54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(2) The State Government shall execute a prospecting licence deed in Form F, within a period of ninety days from
the date of receiving of such application, complete in all respects.
(3)The provisions of rules 14, 16, 18, 19, and 21shall apply to such prospecting licence.
40D. Conduct of prospecting operations.— (1) Upon execution of a prospecting licence deed, the said allocatee
within the period specified in section 7 of the Act, shall undertake prospecting operations, prepare geological
report in accordance with rule 21B and submit a mining plan for approval in accordance with rule 22B.
40E. Conduct of mining operations.— (1) Upon approval of mining plan, the said allocatee shall submit a copy
of such approval to the State Government alongwith all documents required for grant of mining lease as specified
under rule 22 for execution of mining lease deed of prospecting licence-cum-mining lease:
Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax requirement of submission of
any the documents specified in rule 22:
Provided further that the State Government may, with previous approval of the Central Government, impose such
other conditions for conduct of mining operations in the mining lease deed, as it may deem fit.
(2) The State Government shall execute a mining lease deed in Form K of the Schedule I, within a period of ninety
days from the date of receiving of such documents complete in all respects.
(3) The provisions of rules 22A, 22AA, 22B, 22D, 22E, 22F, 27, 29A, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 37A, 38 and 40 shall
apply mutatis mutandis, to such mining lease.
40F. Renewal of prospecting licence.—(1) An application for renewal of a prospecting licence under the
prospecting licence-cum-mining lease deed for the purpose of completing prospecting operations, shall be made
at least ninety days before the expiry of the prospecting licence and shall be accompanied by a statement
containing, -
(a) reasons for renewal;
(b) a report of the details of prospecting operations undertaken by the applicant;
(c) the details of expenditure incurred;
(d) the number of man days for which the work was undertaken; and
(e) the justification for the additional period required to complete the prospecting work.
(2) Receipt of an application for renewal shall be duly acknowledged by the State Government within three days
of receipt of such application.
(3) The application for renewal shall be accompanied by non-refundable fee of rupees one thousand per square
kilometre on a pro rata basis of the area for which the renewal of the prospecting licence is applied for.
(4) The State Government may condone delay in submission of an application for renewal of a prospecting licence
made after the time limit specified in sub-rule (1), provided that such application has been made before the expiry
of the prospecting licence.
(5) An application for the renewal of a prospecting licence shall be disposed of by the State Government before
the expiry of the period of prospecting licence and if application is not disposed of within that period, the license
shall be deemed to have been renewed for a period not exceeding the period for renewal of prospecting license
under sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Act, or the period for which the application is made, whichever is less.
40G. Renewal of mining lease.— (1) An application for renewal of mining lease under the prospecting licencecum-
mining lease shall be dealt with in accordance with rules 24A and 24B, as the case may be.”.
13. In the principal rules, in rule 45, for clause (ia), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
“(ia) mining operations shall be undertaken in accordance with the mining plan, prepared and approved under rule
22B and modified under rule 22E;”.
14. In the principal rules, rule 52 shall be omitted.
15. In the principal rules, after Chapter X, the following chapter shall be inserted, namely:—
“CHAPTER XI
Penalty
76. Penalty.— Any contravention of the provisions of these rules shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 21 of the Act.”.
16. In the principal rules, in Schedule I, after Form P, the following form shall be inserted, namely:—
 “Form Q
MODEL FORM
APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF PROSPECTING LICENCE-CUM-MINING LEASE
[See rule 40A]
(To be submitted in triplicate)
GOVERNMENT OF.............
Received at............(place) on...............(Date)
Initial of Receiving Officer… Dated ……… day of ….. 20…
To
………..
………..
Through……….
Sir,
I ……….., the authorized signatory of ……….(name of successful allocatee company or corporation) request that
a prospecting licence-cum-mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 be granted to ………. (name
of successful allocatee company or corporation).
2.A sum often thousand rupees in accordance with Rule 40Aof the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 has been
deposited.
3.The required particulars are given below:—
(i) Name of the applicant with complete address.
(ii) Is the applicant a private company, public company or corporation?
(iii) An attested copy of the certificate of registration of the company or corporation shall be enclosed.
(iv) Nature of business of applicant.
(v) Number and date of the valid clearance certificate of payment of mining dues(copy enclosed) or
affidavit when not holding any mining lease.
(vi) If on the date of application the applicant does not hold a prospecting licence, it should be stated
whether an affidavit to this effect has been furnished to the satisfaction of the State Government.
(vii) Mineral or minerals which the applicant intends to prospect and mine.
(viii) Period of prospecting licence stage for which the prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required
(ix) Extent of the area the applicant wants to prospect.
(x) Details of the area in respect of which prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is required. (District,
Taluq, Village, Khasra No., Plot No., Area, etc.)
(xi) (a) Does the applicant have surface rights over the area for which he requires a prospecting licence?
(b) If not, has he obtained the consent of the owner, and the occupier of the land for undertaking
prospecting operations. If so, the consent of the owner and the occupier obtained in writing be filed.
(xii) Brief description of the area with particular reference to the following:
(a) the situation of the area in respect to natural features such as streams etc.
(b) in the case of village, areas, the name of the village and if only a part of the village is applied for, the
khasra number, the area in hectares of each field or part thereof applied for.
N.B. - The areas shall cover whole or recognised part survey numbers.
(c) In the case of forest areas, the name of the working circle, the range and the felling series.
56 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(d) For areas where no forest maps or cadestral maps are available, a sketch plan should be submitted on scale
showing the area applied for together with boundary, if any, of any other existing mining lease or
prospecting licence area if the area applied for has any common point or line with the boundaries of
existing prospecting licence or mining lease areas.
(xiii) The areas applied for should be marked on plans as detailed below:
(a) In case a cadestral map of the area is available, the area on this map should be marked showing the
name of the village, Khasra number and area in hectares of each field and part thereof.
N.B. - The area applied for shall cover whole survey numbers.
(b) In the case of forest maps, the area should be marked on the map showing the range and felling
series.
(c) In case neither cadestral nor forest maps are available, the area should be marked on sketch plan
drawn to scale showing on this plan all important surface and natural features, the dimensions of the
lines forming the boundary of the area and the bearing and distance of all corner points from any
important, prominent and fixed point or points.
(xiv) An affidavit, that the up-to-date income tax returns, as prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961, have
been filed, and tax due, including the tax on account of self-assessment has been paid.
(xv) Particulars of the areas mineral-wise within the jurisdiction of the State Government for which the
applicant or any person joint in interest with him:
(a) already holds under prospecting licence and mining lease;
(b) has already applied for but not granted;
(c) being applied for simultaneously.
(xvi) Nature of joint in interest, if any.
(xvii) If the applicant intends to supervise the works, his previous experience of prospecting and mining
should be explained; If he intends to appoint a manager, the name of such manager, his qualifications,
nature and extent of his previous experience should be specified and his consent letter should be
attached.
(xviii) Financial resources of the applicant.
(xix) Particulars of receipted treasury challan attached for the amount referred to at 2 above.
(xx) Any other particulars or sketch map which the Applicant wishes to furnish.
(xxi) Authorization letter/ power of attorney from the successful allocatee company authorising the
authorised signatory to submit the application for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease is enclosed.
I/We do hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are correct and am/are ready to furnish any other
details, including accurate plans as may be required by you.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature and designation of the applicant)
Place
Date
Note:
1- The application should relate to one compact area only.
2. Such large-size map, as may be available, should be attached for proper demarcation of the areas, specially
when the area Applied for is 40 hectares or less.
3. Detailed plan and topographical map are to be attached in triplicate with the original application.”.
17. In the principal rules, after Schedule V, the following schedule shall be inserted, namely:—
“Schedule VI
[see rule 21C(2) and 22B(3)]
(Standards and procedures for accreditation)

1.0 SCHEME FOR ACCREDITATION
NABET, a constituent Board of the QCI, developed Accreditation Scheme for Prospecting and Mining Plan
Preparation Agencies/ Organizations (hereinafter called ‘the Scheme’) with inputs from various stakeholders
including experts in the field, regulatory agencies and consultants.
This document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resources, consultancy quality assurance systems
and procedures to be followed, the assessment process and the accreditation criteria. Various aspects of the
scheme area)
Eligibility (who can get accredited) and coverage of the scheme
b) Human resource – qualification and experience requirement
c) Scope of accreditation
d) Consultant organization quality assurance system (CQAS)
e) Assessment and accreditation process
f) Closure/suspension/delisting/on hold etc. Of applications
For the implementation of the Scheme, NABET is guided by a group of eminent professionals in the field of
Prospecting and Mining and allied subjects and structured secretariat.
One complete cycle of Accreditation covering 3-year period comprising Initial Accreditation, Surveillance
Assessment and Re-accreditation process. All the three processes involve assessment in 3 stages:
Stage I - Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat
Stage II - Technical review of documents
Stage III - Office assessment
1.1 Eligibility for accreditation
Only organizations meeting the eligibility criteria of this Scheme are considered for accreditation. These
consultant organizations can include government bodies, public sectors undertakings and private organizations
which could be proprietorship firms, partnership firms or companies (Pvt. & Public Limited), bodies registered
under Society Acts, under Section 25 of Companies Act, Research Institutes and the like. All requirements of the
Scheme as mentioned in this document are to be complied with for an organization to get accredited. A sole
proprietorship owned by an individual or in personal name can also apply if it fulfils all other requirements of the
Scheme.
1.2 Scope of the Scheme
The Scheme covers the scopes for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency who will prepare Geological
Report (GR) and Mining Plan entrusted by project proponent. Hence the scheme is divided into two sections
describing guidelines for accreditation of scope viz.
1. Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA)
2. Scheme for Accreditation of Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA)
1.2.1 Scheme for Accreditation of Accredited Prospecting Agency
Any Prospecting Agency (Applicant Consultant Organization) must have expertise in all the relevant fields or can
have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any specific area for preparation of
comprehensive geological report. The Accredited Prospecting Agency (APA) organisation can provide
consultancy for prospecting services required for Geological Report (GR) preparation. APA should cover
following aspects –
a. Drilling (Coring & Non-coring)
b. Topographical Survey
c. Geo-physical survey (borehole & surface)
d. In-seam Seismic survey, HRSS, Seismic Refraction
e. Interpretation of Stratigraphy & structure
f. Coal Quality assessment
g. Geo-technical studies
h. Geo-chemical testing
i. Hydro geological studies
j. Geological Modelling
k. Coal / Mineral Resource Evaluation
l. facility for preserving drilling cores, with self/ drilling partner
1.2.1.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE AND FUNCTIONS OF EXPERTS
Experts involved in the Geological Reports preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Prospecting) and
Technical Area Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience
requirements of the experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-
A 1. Project coordinator (Prospecting):
A 1.1 Minimum educational qualifications
a. Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/Geophysics/Hydrogeology/Remote Sensing & GIS/ from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution or equivalent.
b. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
A 1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator
a. Minimum 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned qualifying
degrees.
b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges as Geologist will be considered to fulfill the minimum experience.
c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.
A 1.3 Specific Experience in Prospecting:
a. Project Coordinator(PC) must have Specific experience related to planning and managing the
advanced Prospecting projects
b. Designing and implementing QAQC protocols
c. Geological modelling and Geostatistical analysis,
d. Resource Estimation and Resource classification in accordance with UNFC, NI 43-101, JORC and
SAMREC reporting codes.
e. Prepared at least 3 Geological Report.
f. Monitoring of 3 Geological Report (auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
g. A total of three in combination of (e) and (f)
A 1.4 Expected functions of Project coordinators (Prospecting):
The Project coordinator should be thoroughly aware of Prospecting methodology, requirements and be familiar
with the guidelines of report preparation, MMDR Act, Prospecting rules and all relevant regulations and its
Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough knowledge of prospecting and Prospecting
requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.
The expected functions of Project Coordinator are as follows:
a) Complete understanding about the project specification, develop broad scoping of the project
taking into consideration site specific requirements
b) Meeting with project Director/Owner, framing the methodology for Prospecting program.
c) In depth understanding in respect of topography, hydrology streams, Geology, Hydrogeology, land
use etc.,
60 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
d) Visiting the site for appropriate duration for the selection of sampling locations and deciding the
type of samples in consultation with the TAEs.
e) Collating and reviewing the reports of the TAEs which must include analysis and interpretation of
data.
f) Developing the draft Geological Report and circulating the same amongst team members for final
feedback and ensuring completeness of the report.
g) Discussing the draft Geological Report with the project directors/owners for their comments.
The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studiesi.
Geology GEO
ii. Geophysics GP
iii. Remote Sensing & GIS RS
iv. Surveying SUR
v. Hydrogeology HG
A 2.0 Technical Area Expert (Prospecting):
A 2.1 Minimum educational qualifications
a. Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M.Tech - (Geology, Applied Geology, Geophysics, Hydrogeology,
and Remote Sensing & GIS) from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution.
OR
b. Bachelor’s degree/diploma or equivalent in technical subjects such as Mechanical (Drilling),
Geotechnical and Earth Resource Engineering and equivalent from a UGC/AICTE recognized
University/ Institution.
c. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
A 2.2 Minimum Experience for Technical Area Expert (TAE)
a. An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Prospecting/ Geological report(s).
b. Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges as Geologist, Geophysicist, Remote Sensing & GIS expert
and Hydrogeologist will be considered if work in the respective areas.
c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.
A 2.3 Specific Educational Qualification and Experience for each TAE
A 2.3.1 Technical Area Expert - Geology (GEO):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Hands-on experience in geological Prospecting, mapping, and data interpretation
ii. Knowledge of geological principles, basin modelling and mineral reserves
iii. Preparation of ore body model using SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD,
etc.
iv. Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes
v. Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models
vi. Ability to identify natural resources and determine their economic value
vii. High level of analytical skills to interpret Prospecting data pertaining to mineral prospects.
viii. Experience in Coal/ Metal mining model preparation is preferred
c. Role and Responsibilities
a. Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans
and budget
b. Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.
c. Created and presented accurate geology-based maps, cross sections, and geological models.
d. Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.
e. Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
f. Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.
g. Evaluation of geological & mineable resources of proposals received from national & international
prospects;
h. Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.
i. Study of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for
assessing the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.
A 2.3.2 Technical Area Expert - Geophysics (GP):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geophysics/ Applied Geophysics from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Planning and execution of Geophysical Surveys including special studies using suitable geophysical
technique and equipment.
ii. Geophysical methods comprise of measurement of signals from natural or induced phenomena of
physical properties of sub surface formation.
iii. Various physical properties that are made use of in different geophysical techniques are electrical
conductivity, magnetic susceptibility, density, elasticity & radioactivity etc.
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Prospectively evaluation and Prepare concepts/ plays/ leads/ prospects inventory
ii. 2D & 3D seismic interpretation incorporated with all wells data, Well seismic calibration
iii. Evaluate post- drill well findings based on interpretation and integration of data
iv. Observe the reaction of recording equipment to detect irregularities
v. Use computers for data management, quality control and communication between the office and field
locations
vi. Carry out Vertical electrical sounding, Magnetic / EM profiling and Borehole logging
vii. Interpretation of the date, synthesis of results and preparation of reports
viii. Maintenance and updating of Geophysical records
ix. Proper transportation and maintenance of equipment’s
x. Must be acquainted with state and national policies.
A 2.3.3 Technical Area Expert – Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in Geology/ Applied Geology/
Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent”.
Or
62 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
ii. BE / B Tech in GIS/ Remote Sensing / Spatial Sciences/ Geomatics / Geoinformatics and any other
relevant fields.
iii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Sound knowledge of GPS, GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS 10, QGIS, Erdas imaging,
Digital photogrammetry
ii. Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
iii. Experience in GIS database management.
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. GIS layer analysis, feature extraction using satellite data.
ii. Coordinates and assigns GIS personnel to projects.
iii. Provides team lead oversight on projects including quality assurance, data analysis, map production and
report production
iv. Selects from multiple procedures and methods to accomplish tasks.
v. Excavation measurement to slope stability.
A 2.3.4 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Full time Degree/Diploma in Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and possessing valid Mines
Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post qualification experience in
relevant field
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant
experience.
ii. Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes
iii. Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey
sites.
iv. Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.
v. Experience in Coal/ Metal mining.
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas
to be surveyed.
ii. Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify,
and assume liability for work performed
iii. Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.
iv. Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).
v. Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.
vi. Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
measurements.
vii. Conducting Topographic survey, leveling etc.
viii. Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate
petroleum or other mineral products.
A 2.3.5 Technical Area Expert - Hydrogeology (HG):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Hydrogeology/Hydrology/Water Resources Management from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Analysis of surface hydrogeological data pertaining to ground water, flow fluctuation, estimation of
flows; setting up and interpretation of gauging station readings, designing of ground water table
measurement and monitoring network, computation of ground water recharge, flow rate and direction.
ii. Plotting of ground water contours.
iii. Analysis and description of aquifer characteristics e.g. Permeability, transmissivity, storage coefficient
etc., estimation of groundwater potential and recharge phenomenon, determination of impact of
withdrawal of groundwater.
iv. Geology and Geo morphological analysis/description/ Stratigraphy/Lithology.
v. Developing Geo-hydrological maps.
vi. Must be acquainted with state and national policies.
vii. Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to ground water
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Collecting basic mine production data, such as annual output, drainage quantity, water inflow,
ii. The water inflow (including static-storage and recharge rate) of mine was predicted and calculated by
horizontal catchment channel method, big well method and replenishment quantity method,
respectively.
iii. Hydrogeological condition changes of open-pit coal mine in grass area during production process
A 3.0 Team Member (TM)
A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to
a. experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
b. Existing experts to expand the field of association
c. Persons who have obtained eligibility qualification but do not meet the experience requirements of TAE
or EC
d. This provision is available only for in-house experts
A 3.1 Expected functions of team member
The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.
A 3.2Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:
1. Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
2. Experts involved in preparing Geological reports must be in-house (full time employee).
3. Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house PROJECT COORDINATOR (GL), one
in-house TAE (GL).
4. The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.
1.2.2 Scheme for Accreditation of Mining PLAN Preparing Agency (MPPA)
The Mining Plan Preparing Agency (MPPA) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with the standard and
procedures approved by Central Government. An applicant / consultant organisation must have expertise in
all the relevant fields or can have MoU with agencies having particular expertise if they are short of any
specific area for preparation of comprehensive Mining Plan. The Accredited Mining Plan Preparing Agency
64 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(AMPPA) can provide consultancy for services required for Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report preparation. AMPPA should cover following aspects –
a. Mining Plan for underground and open cast mines
b. Pre-Feasibility/ Feasibility studies of open cast and underground mines
c. Detailed design of underground and open cast mines
d. Operational plans for open cast mines
e. Techno-economic appraisal of mining projects
f. Technical audit of working mines
g. Introduction and adaptation of new technology for underground and open cast mines
h. Preparation of manuals and special reports
1.2.2.1 QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE & FUNCTION OF EXPERTS (Mining)
Experts involved in the Mining Plan preparation comprise Project Coordinator (Mining) and Technical Area
Experts (TAE). They may be helped by team members. The qualification and experience requirements of the
experts and roles envisaged for them are detailed below-
B 1. Project coordinator (Mining Plan)
B 1.1 Minimum educational qualifications
a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial
Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under
Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification
granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.
b. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above
B 1.2 Experience of Project Coordinator
a. Professional experience 15 years overall work experience after the completion of above-mentioned
qualifying degrees. Modification to a mining plan shall be carried out by a person qualified to prepare a
mining plan.
b. Officers retired/served for minimum 15 years in Central/ State Government/ Research Institutes/
universities/ Colleges will be considered to fulfil the minimum experience.
c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.
B 1.3 Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience:
Project Coordinator (PC) must have Mining Plan Preparation Specific experience as follows:
a. Prepared at least 3 Mining Plans.
b. Monitoring of 3 Mining Plan (Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report, auditing, performance evaluation etc.),
c. A total of three in combination of (a) and (b).
B 1.4 Expected functions of Project coordinators (Mining Plan):
The Project Co-ordinator (Mining plan) shall prepare Mining Plan in accordance with guidelines issued by Central
government as per the approved standards and procedures and shall be responsible for correctness of the data
furnished. Mining engineers design the future mine layouts capable of achieving production and mine
development objectives, taking into account the geological characteristics and structure of the mineral resource.
They prepare production and development schedules and monitor progress against these. The Project coordinator
should be thoroughly aware of Mining Plan requirements and be familiar with the guidelines of report preparation,
MMDR Act, rules and all relevant regulations and its Amendments. S/he must have a clear concept and thorough
knowledge of Mining Plan requirements. S/he should share this information with other team members.
Understanding of preparing mining plan including the following activitiesi.
Detailed topography, mine geology, mineral deposit & existence, details of Prospecting, indicating
geological and recoverable reserve, sections calculations, slice plan/level plan method, its layout phases,
mechanization, operations, mine life, overburden, reservoir, mineral estimation etc and other.

ii. Blasting parameters, types of explosive, powder factor, storage of explosive.
iii. Mine drainage, stacking of mineral rejections, use of mineral & its processing and waste disposal,
iv. Environmental management plan describing the impact of mining and beneficiation on environment on
the following over the next five years giving brief information about water regime, biodiversity, quality
of air, noise level, climatic conditions, socio-economic, regional aspects and others along with time
bound action.
v. Year wise proposal of reclamation of land.
vi. Monitoring schedules for different environmental components after the commencement of mining and
other related activities.
vii. Mine closure plan and Rehabilitation & Resettlement plan.
viii. Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team.
ix. Activities related to Safety Planning and accident analysis.
The Mining expert is the key person for preparing Mining reports and plans.
B 2.0 Technical area experts for Mining Plan and Design
B 2.1 Technical Area Experts (TAEs)
Mining Plan and Design is also multi-disciplinary activity where the central figure is the Mining Expert (ME) who
should have broad knowledge and practical experience of preparing Mining Plan. S/he should havea)
Clarity in the concept of the mining, knowledge of the applicable standards, Acts, Rules and regulations.
b) Domain knowledge and understanding of the organization, industry.
The following areas of expertise have been identified which are required for carrying out these studiesi.
Mining Engineering ME
ii. Mining Geology MGEO
iii. Remote Sensing & GIS RS
iv. Civil, Electrical & Mechanical CEM
v. Marketing & Finance M & F
vi. Socio Economics SE
vii. Environment, Health & Safety EHS
viii. Geotechnical (optional) GT
B 2.2 Minimum Educational Qualification for TAEs
a. A BE/ B. Tech/ M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/ Mining Machinery or
equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, A Provincial Act
or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission under Section 4
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any equivalent qualification granted by
any university or institute outside India and recognized by Government of India.
b. Professional experience of three (3) years of working in a supervisory capacity in the field of mining after
obtaining the degree.
c. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
B 2.3 Minimum Experience for TAEs
a. An expert should have a minimum 5 years overall experience in the concerned technical area(s)
knowledge in preparing Mining Plan.
b. Officers retired/served for minimum 5 years in Central/ State Mining Departments/Organization/
Research Institutes/ universities/ Colleges will be considered if work in the respective areas.
c. Proficient in MS office, CAD, ArcGIS, Modelling Software, Data Processing Tools, Geological
Modelling Tools.
B2.4 Specific Educational Qualification and Experience For Each TAE
66 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
B 2.4.1 Technical Area Expert – Mining Engineer (ME):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. A BE/ B. Tech/ B. Sc Engg. / AMIE / M. Tech Degree in Mining Engineering/ Opencast Mining/
Mining Machinery or equivalent granted by a university established or incorporated by or under a
Central Act, A Provincial Act or a State Act including any institutions recognized by the University
Grants Commission under Section 4 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956) or any
equivalent qualification granted by any university or institute outside India and recognized by
Government of India
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project Report preparation
ii. Design of Mining Methods for OC/UG Coal/ Metal/ Non-Metal Mines
iii. Knowledge in broad range current and new UG/OC mining operations
iv. Emerging mining technologies and concepts
v. Techno- Economic Feasibility for Coal, Metal and Non- Metal Minerals.
vi. Selection of Mining Equipment’s and Machineries.
vii. Practical experience in risk management in Mine Design.
viii. Design and scheduling best practice tools and methodologies.
ix. Knowledge of Geology, GIS, Drill & Blast, mining principals and other related mining support services
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Prepare surface and underground plans and blueprints of a mining plans, use of survey data and risk
assessment of mine.
ii. Prepare Mining Plan/ Pre- Feasibility/ Feasibility Project that describe results and processes of mining,
iii. Reconciliation of Prospecting data from economical mine plan, production plans reports.
iv. Use of mine planning software - Use specialized software to plan, design and model for mining
operations
v. Planning equipment for mineral treatment; communicate and collaborate with engineering experts
vi. Generate weekly, monthly, quarterly or annual production plan.
B 2.4.2 Technical Area Expert – Mining Geologist (MGEO):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree/ M. Tech in either subject- Geology/ Applied Geology from a
UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Preparation of ore body modelling using Geological Prospecting data, its interpretation, mapping using
SW like Minex, Datamine, Geosoft, Minesoft, Surpac, AutoCAD, etc
ii. Ability to interpret 2D/3D seismic data and create geologic maps and models
iii. Knowledge and experience of the technologies currently implemented for mining plan, GIS, Drilling,
mining principals
c. Role and Responsibilities
a. Performs scouting of Prospecting activities in the region, preparation of Prospecting activity plans and
budget
b. Execution of drilling operations at prospective locations, Collection, evaluation and reporting on field
samples and prepare activity logs.
c. Create accurate geology-based maps, lithologs, cross sections and geological models.

d. Directed, supervised and managed all work performed by field crews and drillers.
e. Entered and maintained sample information and Prospecting data in relevant database.
f. Interpreted and complied with all applicable governmental regulations and laws.
g. Evaluation of geological & mineable resources from national & international prospects;
h. Research on the feasibility of developing these mineral prospects by analysing, reviewing, and
forecasting data for operational and business planning and preparation of the feasibility study report.
i. Study of available GSI, MECL and other Prospecting reports, compilation and correlation for assessing
the likely potentiality of the mineral prospect.
B 2.4.3 Technical Area Expert – Remote Sensing & GIS (RS):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post-graduate) degree in Science/Technology or equivalent in either subject- Geology/ Applied
Geology/ Geo-informatics from a UGC/AICTE recognized University/ Institution or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Sound knowledge of GIS and Remote Sensing software’s like ArcGIS, QGIS, Erdas etc.
ii. Experience on ArcGIS extensions like Spatial Analyst, Data Management tool, Overlay Analysis.
iii. Experience in GIS database management.
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Remote Sensing, GIS, GPS,
ii. Digital photogrammetry,
iii. Excavation measurement to slope stability.
B 2.4.4 Technical Area Expert - Surveying (SUR):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Full time Degree/Diploma in Mining & Mines’ Surveying from a Govt. recognized institute and
possessing valid Mines Surveyor’s certificate of Competency from DGMS and having one-year post
qualification experience in relevant field
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Having post qualification experience in Topographical Survey, Borehole survey and relevant experience.
ii. Familiarity with Prospecting geology concepts and survey processes
iii. Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey sites.
iv. Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, and other characteristics of terrain.
v. Experience in Coal/Metal mining.
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about boundaries in areas to be
surveyed.
ii. Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify, and
assume liability for work performed
iii. Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to
surveys.
iv. Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using
theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS).
v. Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others
concerned with projects.
vi. Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic
68 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
measurements.
vii. Conducting Topographic survey, levelling etc,
viii. Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate petroleum
or other mineral products.
B 2.4.5 Technical Area Expert – Civil, Electrical & Mechanical (CEM):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. BE/B. Tech/B.Sc. Engg. /AMIE/M Tech in Mechanical/Electrical/Civil Engineering from recognized
University or Institute approved by AICTE
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Design of various structures for both open-pit and underground mines
ii. Plan and design hydraulic systems and transportation structures and systems
iii. Manage the construction, operation and maintenance of the work
iv. Test soils and various other material to determine the requirement needed for the building of foundations
and structures
v. Assist in the design and drawing of complex electrical systems
vi. Work extensively with electrical equipment such as circuits and transformers
vii. Experience in planning and optimising of Plant and Machinery for mining plan
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Design and Layout of Civil Infrastructure Design (Township, Water Works Distribution, Domestic
Effluent Plant)
ii. Coal Preparation and coal Handling Units (CHP) Design
iii. Heavy Earth Moving Machinery Equipments (HEMM) Workshop Design.
iv. Mine Shafts Units, Mine Ventilation by Simulation Modelling
v. Washery Design and Implementation of Modern Washability Methods
vi. In-Pit Crushing and Conveying System (IPCCC) and ROPECON Technology Application
vii. High Angle Belt Conveying System in both O/C & U/G Mines
viii. Energy Efficiency Study (Electrical & Diesel Equipments) of Mines and International Bench Marking
of the Mining Activities
ix. Consultancy on “Energy Sensitive Organizational Structure"
x. All mine specific software development and IT enabled services
xi. GPS enabled monitoring mechanism
B 2.4.6 Technical Area Expert – Marketing & Finance (M&F):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. CA/ ICWA or B. Tech with MBA.
ii. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Experience in establishing commercial viability of the project, Budgeting and financing;
ii. Identifies the existence of markets or long-term, contracts for the product; and decides whether or not
the mine should be developed
iii. Stripping costs where removal of overburden occurs for production, calculation of stripping
adjustments
iv. Determination of impairment charges
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Detailed Project Costing & Financial Structuring.
ii. Risk Analysis Study
iii. Macro and Micro Analysis of Project Viability
iv. Equipment’s Depreciation and amortization
v. Profitability Index Study.
B 2.4.7 Technical Area Expert – Socio-Economics (SE):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. Master’s (post graduate) degree in Social Welfare / Sociology/ Political Science/ Psychology/
Geography/ Anthropology/ Economics/Environmental Economics/Urban Planning/Regional
Planning/Environmental Planning, Developmental Sciences
or
Rural Development and Management – rural economics/ Economic Sociology/ Demographic Studies
or
ii. MBA (Rural Management)
or
iii. Any other social science related subject
or
iv. 2 years Post Graduate Diploma in Sociology from recognized Institution like Tata Institute of Social
Sciences, Xavier Institute of Social Sciences, Ranchi/Xavier Institute of Management,
Bhubaneswar/XLRI, Jamshedpur and other reputed institutes.
v. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Conducting baseline socio-economic surveys through interviews/ questionnaire/focused group
discussions/participatory rural appraisal (PRA)/rapid rural appraisal (RRA)
ii. Methodologies on extrapolation of census data to project an up-to-date status including selected ground
validation of the same
iii. Conduct social needs assessment studies
iv. Evaluation of socio-economic status of both tribal and non-tribal areas
v. Demonstrated capacity to interact and develop rapport at community level will be an added advantage
vi. Conduct Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R & R) studies for people displaced due to developmental
projects and development for R & R plan
vii. Assessment of social changes arising out of development projects
The following are the additional expectation from the expert:
•Understanding of policies, guidelines and the legislation related to R & R issues
•Social Impact Assessment of development projects in Rural/ Urban areas
B 2.4.8 Technical Area Expert – Environment, Health & Safety (EHS):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
i. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Environmental Engineering, Civil, Geotechnical engineering or
Engineering Geology or equivalent.
ii. Desirable – Diploma in (Industrial Safety) from premier institutions (like CLI, RLIs, NITIE,
NITs, P. G. Diploma recognized by State Board of Technical Education).
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
i. Outstanding knowledge of EHS management systems and related software
70 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
ii. Familiarity with OHSAS standards and regulations
iii. Planning of Long-term Sustainability initiatives (Natural capital, Human capital)
iv. Specifications for Specific Dust emission, water consumption, energy consumption, Solid waste
utilization and Green belt development.
v. Facilitate Engineering & Project department by implementing various environment improvement projects
vi. Should have experience as Safety Officer preferably in Mining Industry
c. Role and Responsibilities
i. Prepares and assist in compliance's, general risk assessments and other safety assessments to support
Health, Safety and Environmental management
ii. Responsible for Industrial Hygiene, Occupational Health, Waste Management and business process
enhancements
iii. Maintain EHS configurations and Maintain operational procedures around supported environments
iv. Write, implement, and manage HSE Programs, Policies and Procedures
v. Develop Safe Operating Procedure (SOP's) and Job Hazard Analysis
B 2.4.9 Technical Area Expert - Geotechnical (GT):
a. Educational qualifications specific to functional area
a. B. Tech/B. E/ M. Tech in Civil, Rock/ Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical engineering or Engineering
Geology or equivalent.
b. Desirable – Relevant trainings/ courses of 6 months duration and above.
b. Experience specific to functional area must include
a. Rock strength tests like Triaxial test, compressive strength test, Unified compressive strength etc
b. Rock-quality designation (RQD) measured as a percentage of the drill core in lengths of 10 cm or more
c. Investigation, analysis and modelling of geotechnical issues
d. Geotechnical characterization of borehole core and domain modelling
e. Impact testing, Scratch testing etc.
f. Work closely with the Geology department to optimize safe, timely drill-hole results
c. Role and Responsibilities
a. Slope design for open pits
b. Headings, roadways and drifts for underground operations
c. Panel and longwall design
d. Tailing dam design
e. Special constructions
f. Geological Structure using precision measuring and testing instruments
B 3.0 Team Member (TM)
A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been included in the Scheme to provide opportunity to
a. Experienced professionals in their own fields but lacking experience to enter the profession
b. Existing experts to expand the field of association
c. Persons who have completed 5 years after obtaining eligibility qualification but do not meet the
experience requirements of TAE or EC
d. This provision is available only for in-house experts
B 3.1 Expected functions of team member
The team member (TM) is expected to be involved both in field work as well as in the discussions amongst the PC
and the TAEs. Since s/he is expected to be knowledgeable in area of expertise, emphasis should be given to
acquaint her/him on aspects, developing the management plans and finally in report writing for her/his part of
association in the study.
B 4.0 Requirements of Experts/ Number of experts Required:
1. Project Coordinators must be in-house (full time employee).
2. Experts involved in preparing Mine Planning reports must be in-house (full time employee).
3. Any organization to be accredited must have one approved in-house Project Coordinator (Mining), one
in-house TAE (Mining).
4. The other TAE may be in-house or empanelled. The organisation must cover remaining TAs as per the
project requirement.
1.3 Coverage of the Scheme
This comprehensive document describes the scheme’s requirements of human resource, Quality Management
Systems and procedures to be followed, integrity of data, the assessment process, the accreditation criteria and
other relevant requirements of the Scheme.
1.4 Updation of the Scheme
The accreditation Scheme is dynamic in nature. Modifications and updation will take place from time to
time with the consultation and approval of Ministry. It ought to be for continually improving the delivery
and effectiveness of the consultancy.
QCI/NABET reserves all rights to amend its procedures and fees etc., as it may deem fit. Applicants are requested
to refer to the updated scheme on the QCI/NABET website (http://nabet.qci.org.in/) before applying for their
accreditation/surveillance/re-accreditation/expansion or modification of scope.
2.0 Requirements for Accreditation
The accreditation requirements have been developed with a view to have system-based approach. The
scheme specifies the following six essential requirements for accreditation:
i. Human resource
ii. Field investigation and laboratory arrangement
iii. Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipment
iv. Quality Management System (QMS)
v. Quality of reports
vi. Organizational commitment
vii. Compliance to conditions of accreditation/ improvements achieved
2.1 Human resource
Preparation of a Prospecting report and Mining Plan and mine design is essentially multi-disciplinary
activity where inputs are required from experts having knowledge of the prospecting, mining and
industry/sector for which reports are to be carried out.
2.1.1 Project Coordinator (PC)
The Project coordinator should have broad knowledge about the project. The role of the PC includes, but not
be limited to, studying and understanding the project, setting-up the team, visiting the site with the team,
evolving work schedule and ensuring that data are appropriately utilized for generating the comprehensive
report, correct interpretation and correlation of the data, and maintenance of necessary records.
The essential requisites for PC include the following –
•Conceptual understanding of project requirements, process and outcome.
•Knowledge of the applicable Acts, Rules and Regulations governing the project.
•Domain knowledge
•Leadership quality in planning, selecting and guiding the team
Thus, for Project Coordinator emphasis is given on experience and maturity.
72 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.
1. Project Coordinator Prospecting
2. Project Coordinator Mining Plan
2.1.2 Technical Area Expert (TAE)
TAEs are expected to identify and assess in their respective areas of expertise for adequate input for the report
input and provide their expert inputs to the PC. TAEs should have -
•an in-depth knowledge in their respective areas of specialization
•understanding of the legislations and rules/regulations with respect to the technical areas
•the capability of identifying the need of the project,
For educational qualification, minimum experience and expected functions of Project Coordinators (PC) for
different schemes please refer to below mentioned respective appendices.
1. Technical Area Expert Prospecting
2. Technical Area Expert Mining Plan
2.1.3 Team members (TM)
A provision of ‘Team Member’ has been introduced to:
•Encourage induction of new professionals experienced in their respective technical areas but lack direct
related experience.
•Give opportunity to professionals in the field to build their competencies for handling different technical
areas under the Scheme. This provision is available for in-house employees only.
NABET must be informed about involving professional as team member prior to actually engaging her/him for
the job.
2.1.4 General conditions for experts
a. Experts involved in preparing reports, namely PCs and TAEs, can be both, in-house (full time
employee) or empanelled as per requirement.
b. In-house (IH) expert- is a full-time employee working on the pay rolls of the applicant organization
(AO)/accredited consultant organization (ACO) on regular basis (not on ‘time to time basis’ or on ‘as
an when required’ basis) and gets appropriately paid as per her/his qualification and experience. All
payments to an in-house expert are to be made through bank and are subject to TDS, as applicable.
c. An expert working full time (as per the above definition) in an organization and not working in any
capacity, part time or full time, in any other organization, may opt for a designation as ‘Consultant’.
Such a person may be considered as an ‘in-house expert’ after necessary due diligence by NABET
assessors during office assessment.
d. Empanelled expert–an AO/ACO may also have ‘empanelled’ experts. An empanelled expert may be a
‘freelancer’ (not a full-time employee of any organization) or may be working with an NGO or
Research organization/Academic institute. In the latter case, a No objection certificate (NOC) is to be
obtained from the Registrar for a University, the Principal for a college and the head of organization for
an NGO or a Research organization, as the case may be. The AO/ACO must have an MOU/written
agreement with such experts. Details to be included in NOC and MOU/Agreement.
e. A person working in an organization other than a NGO/Research/Academic Institute cannot opt as an
empanelled expert for an AO/ACO. A full time Director in a Private/Public Limited company or a
‘Partner’ in a partnership firm is considered as a full-time employee of the organization/firm and is not
eligible to opt as an empanelled expert under the Scheme. However, if a person is an Independent
Director in a company, s/he is eligible to be an empanelled expert with a maximum of five AO/ACO. In
such cases, relevant documentary evidence has to be furnished of his/her being an Independent Director
in the company.
f. An expert employed with an NGO or a Research/Academic institute may seek empanelment with a
maximum 3 AO/ACO. (subject to condition 5.1.6 xi given below)
g. All empanelled candidates/experts are required to furnish a Declaration of Association signed by the
candidate/expert and countersigned by the authorized signatory of the AO/ACO. There should also be a
MOU or Agreement between the empanelled candidate/expert stating the tenure and scope of
association duly signed by both parties.
h. Empanelled experts may contribute to the report as and when the work is assigned to them. However,
their expected functions are same as those for IH experts.
i. PCs, TAEs and TMs must maintain field log books of their visits to the site giving the observations,
work done etc., for the stated activity.
j. Submission of any false or misleading information in any of the above aspects, shall lead to the
cancellation of approval of such experts and/or application/ accreditation of the organization.
2.2 Field investigation and laboratory arrangement
Collection of quality primary data is of crucial importance for preparing Prospecting, Mining Plan and Pre-
Feasibility/ Feasibility reports. A good understanding of the project based on visit to the project site by approved
PCs and TAEs is of utmost importance for developing the scope of study and for data collection.
The field investigation would include as per the Prospecting plan to cover following aspects:
i. Exploration coverage
ii. Borehole Density as per ISP norms
iii. Coring and Non-Coring Drilling data
iv. Geophysical logging
v. RQD and Physico-Mechanical test
vi. Survey Data
vii. Hydrogeological Data
2.2.1 Laboratory arrangement for analysis and records of Results w.r.t.DATA
The AO/APA may have an in-house laboratory or agreement/MOU/Work Order with one or more external
laboratories for work related to collecting data. If it engages more than one laboratory to cover its requirements of
Prospecting report being carried out in different parts of the country, it should have a clear internal guideline of
assigning the work to a particular laboratory and maintaining the necessary record of the same.
Laboratories engaged for the Coal core analysis should be carried out in Govt/NABL accredited recognized
laboratory. All analyses should be carried out as specified guidelines. The scope of accreditation/
recognition/certification should cover relevant parameters.
In specific cases, in-house laboratories of a university/ research institute may also be considered, and assessed by
the Assessors to be appropriate for consideration under the Scheme.
Wherever such data generation includes collection of samples at the site by the AO/APA followed by analysis of
the same at the laboratory, a detailed written down procedure should be available with the AO/APA in the QMS,
including methodologies for collection, preservation and transportation of such samples to the laboratory. The
procedure should specifically address as to who are to be involved in selecting sampling locations, parameters to
be analysed for, collection, preservation/transportation etc. of samples.
2.3 Suitable infrastructure, P & M, Software, office and Equipments: May be referred at the website of
QCI-NABET
2.4 Quality management system (QMS) -
One of the long-term objectives of this Scheme is to encourage the consultant organizations to adopt systemoriented
approach for report preparation. Ideally, all Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/
organizations should have their own report preparation manual as well which they may enrich from their
learnings’ over the years.
To facilitate the above, the applicant organization must maintain a Quality Management Systems (QMS) for the
organizations. The QMS should be based on the current version of ISO 9001 standards. Although it is not
mandatory that the organization should be ISO 9001 certified, the QMS must address the requirements of ISO
9001 and the specific requirements of the Scheme.
Prospecting Consultants are advised to establish and maintain a Quality Management System (QMS) for their
organization as the same offers the following benefits;
74 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
•Creates a culture of doing things right, the very first time.
•Inculcates the culture of “saying, what we do and doing, what we say”
•Increases system orientation and reduces person specific dependence.
•Encourages uniform knowledge sharing and develops skilled work force.
•Helps develop team spirit
•Reduces duplicate work and minimizes wastages.
•Improves quality of work and brand image.
QMS should be based on ISO 9001 while addressing specific requirements of NABET Scheme. Please note that
if an organization is already ISO 9001 certified, guidelines B1 to B4 and B10 are normally addressed (which
may please be checked). It is then required to develop procedures for the NABET specific items i.e., B4 to B9
and integrate them with the system meaning that these should also come under the ambit of auditing, document
control, management review etc.
If an organization has not been initiated into the system-oriented approach of working which is documented,
audited and reviewed, it needs to acquaint itself of ISO 9001 requirements. Such organizations may initially take
the help of a consultant but MUST NOT OUTSOURCE THE WORK OF ESTABLISHING THE QMS to him to
meet the requirements of the NABET Scheme. Such an approach will be counterproductive as the system so
developed is less likely to be owned by the working team and would remain a standalone document. THE BEST
WAY IS TO GET THE GUIDANCE OF A CONSULTANT BUT LET THE WORKING TEAM ESTABLISH
THE SYSTEM.
A QMS is supported by a 3-tier documentation system
•The Quality Management System manual
•Procedures
•Work instructions/forms/formats/checklists to implement the procedures
Guidelines for developing the QMS –
Quality policy shall be defined to address at least following:
a. Be appropriate to the Organization’s purpose & context, and support its strategic direction
b. Includes commitment for, continual improvement and satisfy applicable requirements
c. Provide a framework for setting objectives and a review mechanism
d. Be communicated and understood within the Organization
e. Focus on customer satisfaction
Leadership and Planning Support & Operation- Shall give procedures for planning, operations & support
for defined QMS including role and accountability of Top management.
a. Accountability for Effective design and implementation of QMS is defined
b. Use of process approach and risk-based thinking is evident
c. System for effective communication is defined and implemented
d. Risk Management process is established, that is linked to organizations context
e. Interested parties for organization’s QMS are identified and their inputs are captured to improve QMS
f. System for change management is defined and implemented
g. Shall determine, provide and maintain the infrastructure necessary for its operation and processes.
h. Shall plan implement and control the processes needed to meet the requirements as per defined QMS
Control of documented information shall give procedures for:
a. Uniquely identifying documents and records
b. Approving documents prior to issue
c. Distribution, access, retrieval and use
d. Control of changes
e. Reviewing and updating of documents, as required
f. Retention and Disposition
g. Ensuring quick availability of relevant revision of the document
h. Storage, protection and retrieval of documented information and handling of outdated/superseded
documents
Performance Evaluation and Review shall give procedures for:
a. Fixing Key Performance Indicators (KPI) of experts involved and annual appraisal of the same
b. Assessing / ensuring the quality of Geological reports prepared
c. Periodic and systematic audit, both internal and external and follow up action for closure of Nonconformances
(NCs)/ observations.
d. Management review giving periodicity and issues to be taken up including feedback from project
proponent on quality of Geological reports prepared and necessary follow up action.
Actions taken to address Non- conformances– shall give procedures for:
a. Analysing the NCs of internal audits as well as external audits including NABET to identify the causes
and the actions to be taken,
b. Identifying resources and other inputs required for such actions,
c. Fixing the time frame and the responsibility for the actions,
d. Ensuring the completion of the actions to be taken,
e. Review the effectiveness of corrective actions taken
f. Review risks, opportunities and overall QMS if required
Competence management of staff, experts and other persons related to scope of QMS– shall give procedures
for:
a. Define and provide the necessary persons needed for effective implementation of QMS
b. Define the necessary competence (Education, experience and skills) for staff, experts and other persons
whether in house or contractual, impacting the QMS of the organization,
c. Assessing the work done by the prospective experts prior to their retention
d. Framing the “terms of reference” for retention of the expert, including preparation of the report for
her/his portion of the work,
e. Assessing performance of the work done by the experts for the organization,
f. Wherever applicable, take appropriate actions to acquire necessary competence and evaluate the
effectiveness of actions taken
g. Maintain appropriate documented information as evidence of competence.
Collection and measurement of primary data
‘Primary’ data will cover all forms of data collected through the field work, for assessing the project area. The
procedures for collecting primary data should include:
a. Site visits by the Prospecting team to familiarize about site conditions to plan for the Prospecting
Selecting the number and location of monitoring stations and the type of sampling and parameters to be
monitored
b. Interpretation of data including statistical analysis to arrive at meaningful information
c. Specifying as appropriate for the scope of Prospecting methodologies to be followed and interpretation
of the same.
Collation, synthesis and interpretation of secondary data –
Authenticity, credibility, appropriateness and relevance of the secondary data are the cornerstones of a good
Geological report. Secondary data shall be used to supplement the primary data and under no circumstances this
shall be used as a replacement of primary data. This procedure should include information on:
76 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
a. When secondary data would be resorted to
b. Relevant secondary data to be collected as appropriate for Prospecting study requirements
c. Sources of secondary data ensuring their reliability and age
d. Validation of important secondary data by cross verification at the site or from other sources
e. Ensuring the brevity of the data (eliminating irrelevant information)
It is a good practice to give reference to the source when secondary data is used.
Control of externally provided process, products and services
Organization shall give procedure to apply necessary controls for the externally provided processes, products and
services.
The manual should mention procedures for:
a. Defining the conditions when outsourcing would be resorted to
b. Assessing the capability of the agency to take up the work to be outsourced
c. Drawing up the terms of reference for the outsourced work
d. Identifying steps to be taken to ensure the quality of the outsourced work
e. Timely review, monitor and control on outsourced services as per defined QMS
Laboratory work for Prospecting data – should give procedures for:
a. Assessing a laboratory for its capability to analyze the parameters required for collection of surface and
sub surface Prospecting data and studies
b. Identifying the scope of work to be assigned to the lab and those to be done by the Prospecting
Consultant Organization
c. Collection, preservation and transportation of samples from site to the laboratory
d. Quality assurance by the team of the primary data collection work including supervision at site
e. Type of records to be maintained by the laboratory and the team on the baseline data collection work
Customer satisfaction & Complaints–shall give procedures for
a. Monitor customers perceptions of the degree to which their needs and expectations are fulfilled.
b. Informing the clients about the provision of complaints
c. Accepting complaints
d. Handling and disposal (including authority and responsibility) of the same within reasonable time
e. Maintaining records of complaints
f. Ensuring implementation of correction and corrective actions
2.5 Quality of Prospecting (GR), Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility reports
One of the important objectives of the Scheme is to establish the quality of report prepared by Consultant
Organizations, give feedback to them on areas of improvement so that there is consistent report quality. The
assessment criteria include accuracy of site description, quality of data, analysis and interpretation of the data.
2.6 Organizational commitment
The objective of the Scheme is to identify credible Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agencies
organizations who should prepare best quality Prospecting (GR), Mining plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility
report in the country. This will be possible when there is a commitment from the accredited agencies towards
comprehensive report. This has been factored in the Scheme and for Re-accreditation assessment compliance to
the accreditation condition by the accredited agency/ organization since receiving accreditation is also taken into
account (see Section 6 below).
3.0 ACCREDITATION CYCLE
Accreditation Cycle in this Scheme is for 3 years and comprises 3 types of assessments:
Initial accreditation (IA): In the IA, the potential of the applicant organization is assessed and based on that
accreditation is granted. On successful completion of the initial assessment, an applicant organization is given
accreditation for 3 years, subject to a surveillance assessment after 18 months.
Surveillance assessment (SA): This is to assess performance after IA. The basic objective is to judge to what
extent the performance along with compliance to the conditions of accreditation has been met. SA falls due 18
months after IA.
Re-accreditation (RA): Following the principle of ‘consistency’, in RA the emphasis is laid on the consistent
quality achieved by the ACO during the period of accreditation. Since, the ultimate objective of the Scheme is to
improve the quality of Mining plan/ Geological Reports being prepared in our country, weightage accorded to it
gradually increases from IA to SA to RA.
On completion of three years from initial accreditation, the organization is re-assessed broadly as per the process
followed for Initial Assessment with emphasis on improvements achieved.
4.0 ACCREDITATION PROCESS
The accreditation procedure for IA, SA and RA includes three processes:
A. Application assessment process
B. Office assessment process
C. Decision making process
4.1 Application assessment process
There are separate application forms for IA, SA, RA, expansion of scope and supplementary assessment for
replacing approved experts who may have left the organization. These can be downloaded from the NABET
website www.http://nabet.qci.org.in/ .
Applicants are advised to go through the accreditation scheme carefully prior to preparing/submitting their
application. They must complete the Self-assessment to know if the applications are ready for submission and
whether they are ready for NABET assessment. This would greatly reduce processing time benefiting both, the
Applicant organization (AO) /Accredited Consultant Organization (ACO) and NABET. Applications are to be
submitted in soft format only. In case, NABET requires hard copy of a document, the same is intimated to the
AO/ACO.
Application for SA must be submitted three months prior to the when SA is due i.e. on completion of 16 months
after date of office assessment for IA. Similarly, RA application should be submitted three months prior to
expiry of accreditation period i.e., on completion of 34 months after date of office assessment for IA.
NABET application process is on-line and procedure to be adopted for applying on-line will be posted on the
QCI/NABET website.
Assessment of the applications is carried out in 3 stages -
Stage I– Checking completeness of the application by NABET secretariat
Applications submitted by an AO/ACO must be complete in all respects and is inclusive of all supporting
documents mentioned in the checklist of Application Form (for IA, SA, RA) of this Scheme.
NABET secretariat checks if the
(a) Application is complete in all respects,
(b) Information submitted is in relevant formats and
(c) Application is accompanied by the requisite fee.
In case an application is grossly incomplete in respect of candidates/experts, laboratory arrangement etc.,
NABET secretariat informs the AO/ACO of the inadequacies. Such applications are processed further once the
inadequacies are addressed. For other applications, the NABET secretariat forwards the application to the
principal assessor (see below) with its observations for technical scrutiny. The AO/ACO is advised to carefully
study the requirements before filling in the application.
Stage II - Technical review of documents
Assessors with vast experience in the relevant fields conduct technical review of documents of the applications
submitted to NABET. For each application two assessors are assigned. The Principal Assessor (PA) carries out
the Stage II assessment supported by the NABET staff. The PA is joined by a Co-Assessor (CA) for the office
assessment (see below). In case the number of experts involved is large, NABET may assign more CAs to
78 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
expedite the process. After Stage II assessment the PA may raise Non-Conformances (NCs) and/or Observations
(Obs.) pointing out the areas where the application does not meet the requirements of the Scheme. After the NCs
and Obs. are successfully closed by the AO/ACO, further processing of the application i.e. the office assessment
is taken up.
Stage III - Office assessment
It involves assessment of an application in the following six aspects:
a. Quality and performance of personnel
b. Infrastructure, P & M, adequate Software (SW) and Hardware (HW)
c. Field investigations and laboratory systems to ensure data integrity
d. Quality Management System
e. Quality of Prospecting Work, Mining Plan and Pre-feasibility/ Feasibility report data
f. Organizational evaluation/commitment
g. Compliance to condition of accreditation/ improvements achieved(for SA and RA)
The assessment process is primarily evidence based and objective in nature. After obtaining accreditation, an ACO
is expected to strictly abide by the conditions of accreditation. Efforts towards capacity building and commitment
to quality work are given due weightage.
Normally, 10 days prior notice is given to the AO/ACO for office assessment. However, NABET reserves the
right to visit the office/site un-announced, if it is deemed necessary.
4.2 Decision making process
On completion of office assessment process, a joint report is prepared by the PA and CA (or CAs) and sent to
the NABET secretariat for further processing. The PA is responsible for the final report. NABET secretariat
after checking the completeness of the report, obtains clarifications/additional information, if required, from the
AO/ACO/Assessors. The case is then put before the accreditation committee by the NABET secretariat for its
consideration, review and decision on accreditation. The final outcome is thereafter uploaded on QCI/NABET
website http://nabet.qci.org.in/ accreditation becomes effective from the last date of the office assessment.
4.3 Time frame for application and accreditation processes
Completion of application, assessment and accreditation processes depends on the following:
a. Receipt of complete information at NABET for Stage I and II assessments along with necessary
documents and closure action of NCs/Obs., as applicable, for IA, SA and RA applications.
b. Timely submissions of such information by AO/ACO within the time frame stipulated by NABET vide
section 10 for SA and RA. For initial accreditation AOs are requested to submit the required details as
early as possible.
c. Timely raising of queries by NABET within 15 days for Stage I and 1 month for Stage II.
Subject to the above, all efforts are made by NABET to complete the process of granting accreditation within
3 months of submission of complete information by AO/ACO.
4.4 Accreditation process outcome
The salient outcomes from accreditation process are as follows:
a. Accredited – in case the applicant clears the assessment and accreditation processes successfully, the
result is posted on the QCI/NABET website and the AO/ACO is also informed separately.
b. Not approved – if the AO/ACO fails to obtain 40% marks in the office assessment or does not fulfil
any other requirements of the Scheme, the application is not approved and accreditation is not granted.
c. Cancellation - in case an ACO does not fulfil conditions of accreditation or does not submit complete
application for SA or RA in time, a reminder is given to do the same in the next 15 days. If complete
application is not submitted even after 15 days, a final notice is served for responding giving another 15
days’ time.
In the event of non-compliance after the final notice as well, the accreditation granted to the ACO is cancelled
and its’ name is removed from the list of accredited consultants. In case it wishes to get considered again
under the Scheme, it is required to submit a fresh application with requisite fee. Fresh assessment is then
carried out as per IA norms
d. Incomplete applications – If an AO submits an incomplete application in which requisite details are
not provided or it does not meet the requirements of the Scheme in respect of eligible candidates for
Project Coordinator (PC) and Technical Area Expert (TAE), QMS, Laboratory details etc., the same is
put in the ‘incomplete applications’ list. NABET intimates the AO of the deficiencies in the application.
If it is an application for IA, the same is processed further once all requirements are fulfilled.
4.5 Category of accredited consultants
Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency/ organizations are granted accreditation in categories ‘A’ or ‘B.
Experts are also approved in categories A or B under this Scheme.
If an approved category-A expert scores less than 50% marks in SA, s/he is issued an alert and her/his approval
status may be changed to Category-B. A category-B expert is upgraded to category-A if -
a. S/he meets the experience requirements stated in the Scheme/has addressed the shortfalls of earlier
assessment in the re-application
b. Scores 60% or more in SA/RA/Supplementary Assessment and
c. Recommended for up-gradation by the assessors on fulfilment of point a, b above and final decision of
Accreditation Committee.
5.0 GRANT OF ACCREDITATION
Results of the accreditation committee meeting are uploaded on the QCI/NABET website within a month of the
AC meeting in which the relevant case is discussed. A formal letter from NABET is sent within one month from
the date of approval by the accreditation committee mentioning the approved sectors with category, experts
approved with category, detailed conditions of accreditation and NCs & Obs., if any. NABET’s certificate of
accreditation is issued on successful closure of all NCs and Obs.
5.1 Maintaining Accreditation
Accreditation of Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparation Agency is subject to compliance to the requirements of
the QCI – NABET Scheme. These include, but are not limited to:
a. Implementation of systems/procedures documented in the QMS manual of the ACO including the
corrective and preventive actions for the NCs and Obs. of IA, SA, RA, as applicable.
b. ACOs are encouraged to prepare their own ‘Report preparation manual’ detailing the procedures
followed right from the time of placing quotes for the work to completion of the project.
c. Timely replacement of experts - in case any approved PC or TAE leaves the ACO, s/he needs to be
replaced with in a specific time.
d. Intimation of changes – in case of any change in the organization related to systems, procedures,
laboratory and other facilities, the same is to be intimated to NABET in the within one month.
e. Payment of fees, as applicable, to NABET as per the terms of accreditation.
f. At the beginning of the reports prepared by the ACO a declaration is to be given by the ACO
mentioning the names of the PC and TAEs involved. This form must be duly signed by them and
countersigned by the CEO of the organization.
g. Familiarity with the site conditions is a fundamental requirement, concerned PC and relevant TAEs are
expected to visit the site for appropriate duration prior to commencing the work as well as during the
period of primary data collection and for ground validation of secondary data.
h. All PCs and TAEs and team members involved in the project should maintain a field logbook with
noting done at the site. NABET’s assessors may verify these during the office assessment. It is
worthwhile to maintain other documentations on the expert’s site visits viz., expert’s report, and
authorization of tours, travel documents etc.
i. The ACO is to strictly avoid practices/actions mentioned in Section 5.3 to ensure that accreditation
granted to it is not cancelled.
j. The ACO is to maintain the following records (in soft or hard format)
i. A register of attendance of employees involved in project.
ii. Names of the experts (both in-house and empanelled) involved in projects handled by the consultant
organization.
80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
iii. Details of involvement of empanelled experts, in terms of time devoted to various projects.
iv. Updated declaration of empanelled experts indicating the number of organizations they are
associated with.
v. All documents related to laboratory work and implementation of QMS
5.2 Changes after accreditation
Since accreditation of a consultant organization is based on the experts approved, an ACO must inform NABET if
an approved expert leaves the organization and propose a replacement in accordance of the Scheme’s
requirements within one month. NABET would arrange assessment of such candidate/s either during the next
assessment due or earlier. Failing to propose a replacement on time is a non-conformance, viewed seriously and
may also result in cancellation of accreditation.
A new candidate may be proposed as a PC or a TAE for assessment at any time. However, for a person already
assessed and not approved may be proposed only after a gap of 3 months enabling her/him to address the shortfall.
5.3 Suspension/cancellation/debarment of accreditation
NABET may suspend or cancel an accreditation or even debar an organization on account of any or more grounds
during accreditation process or after, but not limited, to the following:
a. Non-compliance or violation of the NABET’s requirements and conditions of accreditation and deviation
from facts as stated in application and enclosures
b. In case an approved expert leaves the organization, the ACO is required to inform NABET of the same
within one month and get a replacement approved within the next two months.
c. Submission of false or misleading information in the application or in subsequent submissions
d. Improper use of NABET’s accreditation mark, letter of accreditation from NABET or the QCI/NABET
logo
e. Carrying out changes in Project coordinators/experts without NABET’s approval
f. Failure to report any major legal (mandatory compliance) changes and evident conflict of interest
g. Using fraudulent practices by the ACO in respect of its submission/interaction with NABET which
include, but not limited to, deliberate concealment and/or submission of false or misleading information,
suppression of information, falsification of records or data, unauthorized use of accreditation.
h. Violation of the Code of Conduct for the consultant organizations.
i. Any other condition deemed appropriate by NABET.
The decision for the suspension/cancellation/debarment is taken by the NABET accreditation committee.
A clarification may be sought and put up to the accreditation committee for final decision on the matter.
5.4 Actions for misconduct/fraudulent activities
Submission of false or misleading information or use of fraudulent practices, an AO/ACO may be disqualified for
up to one year, to be decided by the accreditation committee depending on the seriousness of the action. Such
AO/ACO will be able to re-apply only after expiry of the disqualification period. The application is to be
accompanied with an undertaking from the CEO of the organization that, if such practices are repeated, it will
render the organization ineligible to participate in the NABET accreditation scheme any further. The same
approach is applicable for individual experts (PCs and TAEs) as well.
5.5 Confidentiality
All information, documents and reports submitted by an AO/ACO to NABET are utilized by the NABET,
assessors, members of accreditation and technical committees for the purpose of assessment and accreditation.
These may also be shared with MoC, Govt. of India and other members of the International Personnel
Certification Association. However, the identity of the accredited consultant organizations would be masked for
sensitive information related to business whenever it is called for/appropriate. In case an AO/ACO wants the
information to be kept confidential, a communication must be sent to NABET citing reasons for the same.
NABET reserves the right to take appropriate decision in this regard. NABET also reserves the right of taking
appropriate action against an ACO for deliberate breach of confidentiality.
The ACO is required to have adequate arrangements consistent with applicable laws to safeguard confidentiality
of all information provided by its clients. These arrangements are extended to include organizations or individuals
acting on its behalf and as its representatives.
6.0 GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL MECHANISM
There are two methodologies available under the Scheme for addressing the grievances of AOs and ACOs–
a. Review of Decisions
b. Appeal
6.1 Review of decisions
In case an AO/ACO wishes for review/reconsideration of any decision taken by NABET, they may send a request
for same to NABET.
The following procedure is applicable:
a. Request received from AO/ACO by NABET is recorded in the same serial as date of receipt
b. Request must mention specific complaints (not generic in nature) and supported by documentary
evidence.
c. Anonymous/ pseudonymous requests are not be entertained.
d. Only substantial errors/mistakes on procedural matters are taken up for consideration. Re-assessment of
any aspect of assessment or request for deviation from the Scheme cannot be considered.
e. Such ‘Reviews’ are taken up for consideration in a meeting of the relevant Accreditation Committee as
early as possible.
f. Agenda of such meetings is intimated to the AO/ACO.
g. AOs/ACOs making the request may present their case in person to the AC, if they so desire.
h. Decision of the AC is intimated to the concerned organizations as well as posted on QCI website.
6.2 Appeal
An AO/ ACO may apply for Appeal in case it is not satisfied with the ‘Review’ decision.
An ‘Appeal’ must include the specific issues on which the appellant is filing the appeal accompanied by
supporting documents, fees for appeal. The following information is to be provided while submitting the appeal -
Sl.No.
Specific
issue/s
submitted in
Review
Supporting
documents
submitted in
Review
Decision of
Review
Committee
Additional/ new
issues submitted in
Appeal now
New supporting
documents added
now
1 - - - - -
The Following procedure is applicable:
i. Formation of 3-member Appeals Committee by NABET, chaired by a member of NABET Board and
comprising one more member from NABET Board and one subject specialist.
ii. The Appeals Committee proposed is approved by the Chairman, NABET Board.
iii. The documents received from the appellant are submitted to the members of the Appeals committee by
NABET Secretariat.
iv. Process of hearing by the committee - the committee fixes a date for the hearing which is intimated to the
appellant by NABET secretariat. A reasonable notice period is given for the appellant to appear in the
hearing. The committee gives due opportunity to the appellant and the NABET secretariat to present their
cases. The committee gives its decision after hearing both the sides and based on deliberation within it.
v. The decision of the Appeals committee is intimated to the appellant by NABET Secretariat.
7.0 CODE OF CONDUCT
All ACOs are obliged to improve the standing of the consultancy profession by rigorously observing the Code of
Conduct. Failure to do so may result in the suspension or cancellation of accreditation.
7.1 Use of QCI and NABET logo
a. The QCI and NABET accreditation logo is the property of NABET and its use is controlled. Compliance to the
guidelines and conditions is required for using NABET Accreditation Mark
82 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
i. Whenever a Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency is accredited, NABET shall inform the
relevant entity about the conditions of the use of accreditation mark.
ii. Accreditation mark can be used by NABET accredited consultant organizations only.
b. Guidelines and conditions of use of accreditation mark
i. Accreditation mark as appears on NABET Accreditation certificates can be printed as coloured image
or black and white
ii. Accreditation mark shall not be used to suggest any approval or sponsorship of NABET other than the
organization accredited.
iii. Accreditation mark shall not be used in any way that misleads the reader about the accreditation status
of the consultant organization
iv. Accreditation mark is not transferable and is to be used only by the accredited consultant organization
as described in its application.
v. Accredited consultant organization upon suspension or withdrawal or expiry of its accreditation
(however determined), shall discontinue the use of NABET accreditation mark on all media of
communications by the organization including promotional material, letter head, newsletters, brochures,
annual reports, business cards, websites and advertisements etc.
vi. NABET reserves the right to change the conditions as and when considered necessary and the same
shall be communicated to consultant organization.
vii. Use of accreditation mark is applicable for consultant organizations only and not for individual expert/s.
c. Verification
a. NABET may, at its discretion, carry out verification of proper use of the accreditation Mark.
b. If any misuse of the accreditation is noticed, NABET initiates actions as per procedure for suspension
and/or cancellation of its accreditation.
7.2 Undertaking by consultant organization
The consultant organization undertakes to:
a. Act professionally, accurately and in an unbiased manner.
b. Be truthful, accurate and fair to the assigned work, without any fear or favour.
c. Judiciously use the information provided by or acquired from the client in carrying out the project and
to maintain the confidentiality of information received or acquired in connection with the assignment.
d. Use the expertise of only approved experts of relevant category in the preparation of Mining Plan/
Geological Reports.
e. Avoid and/or declare any conflict of interest that may affect the work to be carried out.
f. Not accept any favour from the clients, or their representatives.
g. Not act in a manner detrimental to the reputation of any of the stakeholders including NABET and the
client.
h. Co-operate fully in any formal enquiry procedure of NABET.
Prior to accreditation, the AO signs the “Code of Conduct for Prospecting and Mining Plan Preparing Agency”
and sends it to the NABET secretariat.”
[F. No. 34011/28/2019-CPAM]
BHABANI PRASAD PATI, Jt. Secy.
Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number
G.S.R.1398, dated the 26th November, 1960 and lastly amended vide number G.S.R. 710(E), dated the 8th
October, 2014.

 WHEREAS, the draft Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 proposing
to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were published in in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3,
Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R. 249 (E), dated the 13th April, 2020, inviting objections and suggestions, if any, to the
Government of India, Ministry of Coal within thirty days from the date on which the said notification was made
available to the public;
AND WHEREAS objections and suggestions received from the public have been considered;
NOW, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely:—
1. Short title and commencement.— (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment
Rules, 2020.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the principal rules):—
(i) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in the preamble, for the words, brackets and figures, ―Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014)‖, the words, brackets and figures ―Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) shall be substituted; and
(ii) throughout the principal rules wherever they occur, except in clause (j) of sub-rule (1) of rule 2, for the word,
―Ordinance‖, the word ―Act‖ shall be substituted.
3. In the principal rules, rule 2, sub-rule (1),
(i) for clause (a), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—
‗(a) ―Act‖ means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);
(aa) ―additional levy‖ has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) section 3 of the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015);
(ab) ―affiliate‖ with respect to any person shall mean any other person who, directly or indirectly:—
(i) controls such person; or
(ii) is controlled by such person; or
(iii) is controlled by the same person who, directly or indirectly, controls such person; or
(iv) is an associate company of such person.
Explanation— For the purpose of this clause "associate company" shall have the same meaning as
assigned to it in sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);
(ac) ―allocation‖ means allotment and auction referred together;
(ad) ―allotment‖ means allotment of coal blocks referred to in section 5 of the Act;‘;
(ii) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
‗(ca) ―auction‖ means the public auction by competitive bidding of Schedule I coal mines under section 4 of the
Act;
(cb) ―bidder‖ means a company or corporation which participate in auction of coal mine;‘;
(iii) after clause (d), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
‗(da) ―ceiling price‖ means a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a coal mine which is to
be allocated by way of reverse auction;
(db) ―coal linkage‖ means a contract entered between coal producing Government company or corporation and
consumer for supply of coal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant fuel supply agreement;
(dc) ―control‖ shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy
decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including

12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in
any other manner;‘;
(iv) in clause (f), for the words ―the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way
of auction‖, the words ―a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by
way of forward auction‖ shall be substituted;
(v) after clause (f), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
‗(fa) ―forward auction‖ means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid higher than the floor price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;
(fb) ―group company‖ means a company which is an affiliate of another company;‖
(fc) ―infrastructure special purpose vehicle‖ means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by
the Central Government for the purposes of Ultra Mega Power Projects and shall –
(i) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project and grant the said land
under lease or licence to the operating special purpose vehicle;
(ii) hold the allocation of the domestic captive coal block and grant the mining, development and
operation rights of the said domestic captive coal block to the operating special purpose vehicle;
(fd) ―operating special purpose vehicle‖ means an entity incorporated by the nodal agency designated by the
Central Government for the purpose of an Ultra Mega Power Project and shall –
(i) be transferred to the awardee of an Ultra Mega Power Project on the basis of competitive bids for
tariff for the execution of the Ultra Mega Power Projects;
(ii) execute the power purchase agreement with the distribution licensees for execution of the Ultra
Mega Power Project;
(iii) hold the land required for the construction of the Ultra Mega Power Project on lease basis
acquired in the name of infrastructure special purpose vehicle; act as a mine development operator of
the captive coal mine allocated to the infrastructure special purpose vehicle;‘;
(vi) clause (j) shall be omitted;
(vii) after clause (j) so omitted, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
‗(ja) ―person‖ shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
(jb) ―preferred allottee‖ means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (8) of rule 11;
(jc) ―preferred bidder‖ means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 10;
(jd) ―reverse auction‖ means the method of auction where the bidders shall be required to successively quote
the bid lower than the ceiling price, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the tender document;‘;
(viii) in clause (k), for the words and figure ―the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine
allocated by way of allotment‖, the words and figure ―a price or percentage fixed by the Central Government for a
Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of allotment or by way of reverse auction‖ shall be substituted;
(ix) for clause (m), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:—
‗(m) ―successful allocatee‖ means the successful bidder and successful allottee referred together;
(ma) ―successful allottee‖ means the allottee as referred to in sub-rule (9) of rule 11 or a company, or as the
case may be, corporation to whom coal mine has been allotted in pursuance of rule 12;
(mb) ―successful bidder‖ means the bidder as referred to in sub-rule (10) of rule 10;‘;
(x) after clause (o), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
‗(p) ―Ultra Mega Power Project‖ shall mean a power project based on supercritical coal thermal technology or
more efficient technology, with installed capacity of 3960 Mega Watt (MW) or above or such other capacity as
may be specified by the Central Government, from which power procurement is tied up by procurers in more
than one State or Union territory, through tariff based competitive bidding initiated through a Central
Government initiative under the Guidelines for Determination of Tariff Through Transparent Process of
Bidding for Procurement of Power from Ultra Mega Power Projects notified by Central Government under
section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003)‘.

4. In the principal rules, in rule 7, in sub-rule (2), in clause (p), for the words and figures, ―Schedule II coal mine;‖, the
words and figures, ―Schedule II coal mine and on the date of termination of vesting order or allotment order in case of a
coal mine under production;‖ shall be substituted.
5. In the principal rules, in rule 8, in sub-rule (2),—
(i) in the opening portion, for the words ―regarding the following‖, the words ―specifying the following‖ shall be
substituted;
(ii) clause (b) shall be omitted.;
(iii) after clause (b) so omitted, the following shall be inserted, namely:—
―(ba) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal, or for
sale of coal.
Explanation— For the purposes of this clause, own consumption may include consumption of coal in any
specified end use or in any combination of specified end uses.‖;
(iv) in clause (c), for the words ―conducting auction or allotment‖, the words ―conducting allotment or conducting
auction including by way of forward auction or reverse auction‖ shall be substituted.
6. In the principal rules, in rule 10,—
(i) in sub-rule (3),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(a) the purpose of allocation of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal,
or for sale of coal; ‖;
(b) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price in case of
forward auction or the ceiling price in case of reverse auction, reserve price in case of reverse auction,
eligibility conditions, the process of conduct of auction and other related information;‖;
(c) for clause (e), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(e) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder as specified in subrule
(5) of rule 13.‖;
(ii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) in clause (b), after sub-clause (B), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:—
―(C) The financial bid stage may be divided into such sub-stages or rounds as may be deemed expedient by
the Central Government.‖;
(b) in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c), for the words ―provide security, guarantee.‖, the words ―bid security in the
form of bank guarantee.‖ shall be substituted;
(c) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(iii) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—
―(4A) In cases where auction of a coal mine has been conducted under sub-section (3) of section (4) of the Act
and a company has been declared successful bidder before the commencement of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020, then the entitlement of such successful bidder to receive coal pursuant to
such coal linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the
mine allocated to such successful bidder.
(4B) In cases of auction of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal conducted after the
commencement of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2020 where a bidder having a coal
linkage becomes the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal linkage may
be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in the tender document.
(4C) In case the coal mine is specified for auction for the purpose of own consumption, then the capacity of the
end use project for which a bidder is bidding shall be in such proportion to the capacity of coal block as may be
specified in the tender document.‖;
(iv) in sub-rule (5), for the words ―or both that may be allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies‖,
the words ―or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may be

14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
auctioned to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate‖ shall be substituted;
(v) in sub-rule (9), for the words ―the nominated authority shall forward‖, the words ―the nominated authority shall
declare the preferred bidder on the basis of the result of auction and shall forward‖ shall be substituted.
7. In the principal rules, in rule 11—
(i) in sub-rule (2) for the words ―shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State‖, the words ―may specify the maximum number of mines or
coal reserves or a limit based on any other parameter regarding production of coal or any combination thereof that may
be allotted to a company or corporation or its subsidiary or holding company or associate companies or group companies
or its affiliate‖ shall be substituted;
(ii) in sub-rule (3), for the words ―shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document‖, the words ―shall
prepare a document for the allotment process, that is, the allotment document‖ shall be substituted;
(iii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(a) the purpose of allotment of the coal mine including, but not limited to, own consumption of coal
or for sale of coal;‖;
(b) in clause (c) after the words ―eligibility conditions,‖, the words ―procedure for making application for
allotment,‖ shall be inserted;
(c) after clause (c), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—
―Provided that in case the coal mine whose mining plan has not been prepared, the nominated
authority may specify the reserve price after the allotment of coal block and preparation of mining
plan for such mine; and the successful allottee shall furnish an undertaking as a part of the agreement,
as specified in sub-rule (5) of rule 13, to pay the reserve price within the specified time, as may be
specified by the nominated authority.‖;
(d) for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
―(d) specimen of agreement proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee as specified in
sub-rule (5) of rule 13.‖;
(iv) in sub-rule (6),—
(a) clause (d) shall be omitted;
(b) in clause (g),—
(i) in the opening portion, for the words ―towards any specified end use‖, the words ―for own
consumption‖ shall be substituted;
(ii) in sub-clause (iii), for the words ―the specified end-use‖, the words ―specified as the purpose‖ shall be
substituted;
(v) for sub-rule (8), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:—
―(8) The nominated authority shall declare the preferred allottee on the basis of the result of allotment process
and shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the selection of the successful
allottee.‖;
(vi) in sub-rule (10), for the words and figure ―Schedule I coal mine to a Central Government company or corporation.‖,
the following shall be substituted, namely:—
―Schedule I coal mine to,—
(i) a Government company or corporation owned, managed or controlled by the Central Government, or
(ii) a Government company or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on
the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project):
Provided that in case of allotment of a coal block to a Government company or corporation for
utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including
Ultra Mega Power Project), the Central Government shall first issue an in-principle allotment letter for such
coal block to such Government company or corporation recommended by the Government of India in the
Ministry of Power before the competitive bidding for tariff and thereafter on successful award of power project,
the final allotment order shall be issued in accordance with the process specified in rule 13.‖

 (vii) after sub-rule 10, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
―(11) In cases of allotment of coal mine for the purpose of own consumption of coal where an applicant having
a coal linkage becomes the successful allottee, then the entitlement of such successful allottee to receive coal
pursuant to such coal linkage may be reduced on such basis as may be specified by the nominated authority in
the allotment document.‖.
8. In the principal rules, for rule 12, the following shall be substituted, namely:—
―12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- (1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Act, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the
Government of India in the Ministry of power, which has been awarded power project on the basis of competitive bids
for tariff) including Ultra Mega Power Projects), on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem
expedient.
(2) The Central Government may notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment
under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.‖.
9. In the principal rules in rule 13,—
(i) in sub-rule (1), for the word ―allottee‖, the words ―successful allottee‖ shall be substituted;
(ii) in sub-rule (3), in clause (a), for the word ―proceeds‖, the word ―compensation‖ shall be substituted;
(iii) in sub-rule (4),—
(a) in the opening portion, for the words ―successful bidder or allottee‖, the words ―successful allocatee‖ shall
be substituted;
(b) in clause (ii), for the words ―till it reaches its peak rated capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as
may be specified by the Central Government‖, the words ―as provided in the agreement specified in
sub-rule (5)‖ shall be substituted;
(c) after clause (iii), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—
―Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company
or corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of
competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance Bank Guarantee
shall be provided by the operating special purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after
award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued
by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.‖;
(iv) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—
―(5A) The terms and conditions of the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall be included in terms and
conditions of the mining lease for the coal block along with any other terms and conditions that the Central Government
or the State Government may deem fit under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 and upon grant of the mine opening
permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the agreement as specified in sub-rule (5) shall stand
terminated.
(5B) Upon grant of the mine opening permission under rule 9 of the Colliery Control Rules, 2004, the successful
allocatee shall provide an unconditional and irrevocable performance bank guarantee in favour of the State Government
for the amount equivalent to the performance bank guarantee submitted by it to the Central Government under sub-rule
(4) for ensuring the production of coal as per the mining plan:
Provided that in case the allotment is made under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 to a Government company or
corporation for utilisation of coal in the linked power project to be awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff
(including Ultra Mega Power Project), the performance bank guarantee shall be provided by the operating special
purpose vehicle on behalf of the successful allottee after award of power project on the basis of competitive bidding in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Government in the Ministry of Power.
(5C) The performance bank guarantee submitted under sub-rule (4) shall be returned to the successful allocatee after
submission of performance bank guarantee under sub-rule (5B) or after sixty days of termination of the agreement as
specified in sub-rule (5), whichever is earlier.‖;
(v) in sub-rule (6), for the words ―and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in
force‖, the words ―and these rules, on recommendation of the State Government concerned in the event of breach of
terms and conditions of reconnaissance permit, prospecting license, mining lease or prospecting license-cum-mining

16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
lease, in the event of cancellation of said concessions under any other law in force, or it is expedient in public interest to
terminate the allocation in the opinion of the Central Government, for the reasons to be recorded in writing‖ shall be
substituted.
10. In the principal rules, in rule 14,—
(i) in the heading, the words ―to the prior allottee‖ shall be omitted;
(ii) in sub-rule(1), the words ―payable to the prior allottee‖, at both the places where they occur, shall be omitted.
11. In the principal rules, in rule 15,—
(a) in the heading, for the words ―proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee‖, the word ―compensation‖ shall be
substituted;
(b) in sub-rule (1),—
(i) for the words ―proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure‖, at both the places where they occur, the words
―compensation deposited by the successful allocattee with the nominated authority‖ shall be substituted;
(ii) after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
―(c) amount payable to the prior allottee in respect of Schedule I coal mine.‖.
12. In the principal rules, for rule 17, the following rule shall be substituted, namely:—
―17. Re-auction and re-allotment.— In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rules 10, 11 or 12, or
the vesting order or allotment order in respect of any Schedule I coal mine is terminated, as the case may be, the
nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate auction under rule10 or allotment of the coal mine under rule 11
or rule 12, subject to such order as the Central Government may deem fit to issue under rule 8.‖.
13. In the principal rules, in rule 19,—
(i) in sub-rule (1), the words ―or a coal linkage holder‖ shall be omitted;
(ii) in sub-rule (2), after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
―(d) details of coal linkages of the parties, if any.‖;
(iii) after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
―(2A) Before applying, the parties shall ensure that all parties to the arrangement or agreement are otherwise
eligible for the allocation of the coal mine or grant of coal linkage, as the case may be, which are subject matter
of such agreement or arrangement.‖;
(iv) after sub-rule (4), the following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:—
―(4A) The Central Government while granting its approval may impose any condition which shall be binding
on the parties to such agreement or arrangement.
(4B) Upon execution of such agreement or arrangement, the party carrying out the mining operations in the
coal mine or receiving coal under coal linkage shall bear the liabilities in relation to such coal mine or coal
linkage.‖;
(v) after sub-rule (5), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
―(6) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.‖.
14. In the principal rules, in rule 20,—
(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words ―subsidiary company for common‖, the words ―holding company or its subsidiary
company for same‖ shall be substituted;
(ii) after sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
―(4) An allottee to whom the coal mine has been allotted under sub-rule (10) of rule 11 for utilisation of coal in
the linked power project awarded on the basis of competitive bid for tariff (including Ultra Mega Power
Project) or under rule 12, shall not be entitled to enter into such arrangement or agreement.‖.
15. In the principal rules, in rule 26,—
(a) in sub-rule (1),—
(i) for the word ―may‖, the word ―shall‖ shall be substituted;
 (ii) for the words and figure ―Schedule I coal mine‖, the words and figure ―Schedule II coal mine or a coal
mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been terminated,‖ shall be substituted;
(b) in sub-rule (2), the word and figure ―Schedule I‖ shall be omitted;
(c) in sub-rule (4), in clause (b), the word and figure ―Schedule I‖ shall be omitted.
16. In the principal rules, in rule 27, for sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely:—
―(3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine or a coal mine under production whose vesting order or allotment order has been
terminated, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the relevant coal mine in trust for the
designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of the relevant coal mine.‖.
17. In the principal rules, in rule 30, after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
―(1A) The powers conferred to a designated custodian under sub-rule (1) may also, mutatis mutandis, be
exercised by designated custodian in respect of any mine under production whose vesting order or allotment
order has been terminated.
Note:- The principal rules were published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i) vide number G.S.R.
883(E), dated the 11th December, 2014 and lastly amended vide number S.O. 782(E), dated the 18th March, 2015

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-
1. Short title and commencement.--- (1) These rules may be called the Coal Bearing Areas
(Acquisition and Development) Rules, 1957.
(2) They shall come into force at once.
2. Definitions.--- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, :-
(i) “the Act” means the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957
(20 of 1957);
(ii) “Area” means the coal bearing area which it is intended to prospect or acquire
under the provisions of the Act;
(iii) “section” means the section of the Act.
3. Mode of service of notice or order.--- (1) Any notice or order required to be served under
the Act, if of a general nature or affecting a number of persons, shall be published in the official
Gazette and the due publication of such notice or order shall also be given by proclaiming it by
beat of drum on or near the area and by affixing a copy of it on some conspicuous place on or
near the area.
(2) Any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against an
individual:-
(i) shall be served by delivering or tendering a copy thereof duly signed to the person
on whom it is to be served or to his duly empowered agent;
(ii) where the person on whom the notice or order is to be served cannot be found and
where such person has no agent empowered to accept service of notice or order,
service may be made on any adult member of the family of such person residing
with him ;
(iii) where the serving officer delivers or tenders a copy of the notice or order to the
person to the served with such notice or order personally or to his agent or other
person on his behalf, he shall require the signature of the person to whom the
copy is so delivered or tendered in token of the acknowledgment of the service on
the original notice or order;
2
(iv) where the person to be served with the notice or order of his agent or such other
person as aforesaid refuses to sign the acknowledgement, or where the serving
officer, after issuing all due and reasonable diligence, cannot find the person to be
served with the notice or order, and there is no agent empowered to accept service
of the notice or order on his behalf nor any other person on whom service can be
made, service may be effected by affixing a copy of the notice or order on the
outer door or some conspicuous part of the houses in which the person to be
served with the notice or order ordinarily resides. or carries on business or
personally works for gain or by affixing a copy of such notice or order to a
conspicuous place on or near the area;
(v) the serving officer shall, in all cases in which the notice or order has been served
in the manner stated in clause (iv), endorse or annex or cause to be endorsed or
annexed, on or to the original notice or order, a return witnessed by two persons
living in the neighborhood stating the date on which and the manner in which the
notice or order was so served.
Every such substituted service shall be as effectual as if it has been made on the person
concerned personally.
(vi) notwithstanding anything contained in clauses (i) to (v), the authority ordering the
service of a notice or order may, if he thinks fit or when he finds that the service
cannot be effected in any of the modes aforesaid, order that the notice or order
shall be served by sending a copy thereof, duly signed, by registered post with
acknowledgement due to the person on whom such notice or order is to be served
at his last known address;
In case of such service an acknowledgement purporting to be signed by such person or
his duly empowered agent or an endorsement by a postal employee that such person or
the agent refused to take delivery, may be deemed by the authority ordering service of
such notice or order to be prima facie proof of service;
(vii) where the person to be served with notice or order is a minor or a person of
unsound mind, the notice shall be served in the aforesaid manner, on the guardian
of such minor or person of unsound mind, as the case may be.
(3) any notice or order required to be served under the Act, if directed against a
Corporation, may be served:-
(a) on the Secretary, or on any Director, or other principle officer of the
Corporation, or
(b) by leasing it or sending it by post addressed to the Corporation at the
registered office, or if there is no registered office then at the place where the
Corporation carries on business.
3
4. The procedure to be followed after the issue of notification under section 7.---
(1) On the publication in the Official Gazette of a notification under section 7,
any person interested in any land in respect of which such notification has been issued,
may, within thirty days of the notification, make objection to the competent authority in
writing.
(2) Every objection referred to the in clause (1) shall contain a statement of the
nature of the interest of the objector over the area to be acquired, and shall also contain a
statement as to whether the objector is or is not in actual possession of such area. The
objection shall be duly verified by the objector or his duly authorized agent. The objector
shall submit along with the objection a list of documents, if any, on which he relies for
establishing his objection. The objector shall also file along with his objection as many
copies of the objection as are required by the competent authority.
(3) The competent authority on receiving the objection, if it complies with the
requirements laid down in this rule, register such objection and fix a date for the hearing
of the objection and give notice thereof to the objector as well as to all the parties
interested in the area in respect of which the objection is filed. With every such notice a
copy of the objection filed shall be annexed except in the case of the objector. Any party
interested may file at least fifteen days before the date fixed by the competent authority
for hearing of the objection, a statement by way of reply to the objection.
(4) On the date fixed for the hearing of the objection or any other date to which
the hearing may be adjourned by the competent authority, the competent authority shall
examine whereas, if tendered on behalf of the objector or any other interested party.
(5) The proceeding before the competent authority shall be summary, and only the
substance of the statement of parties or the statement of the witnesses, if any shall be
recorded.
(6) The competent authority shall, after hearing the arguments, if any, of the
parties concerned and after making such further inquiry as he thinks necessary, submit
the case for decision of the Central Government, together with a record of the
proceedings held by him and a report containing his recommendations on the objection.
5. Maps, charts, etc to whom to be delivered.--- All maps, charts and other documents
referred to in sub-section (7) of section 13 shall be delivered to the Revenue Officer of the
National Coal Development Corporation Limited within ninety days from the date of publication
of the notice under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act.
5-A. Filing of claims for compensation.--- Any person interested may file his claim for
compensation to the Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Ltd, Ranchi,
or to such other officer as the Central Government may notify in that behalf;
4
(a) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (1) of section 15,
within ninety days from the date of publication of the notice under sub-section (1) of
section 4;
(b) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (4) of section 13,
within ninety days from the date of rescission of the notice issued under subsection(
1) of section 4 or after the expiry of the period of three years specified in subsection
(2) of section 7;
(c) where the claim is in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (2) or subsection
(5) of section 13, within ninety days from the date of publication of the
declaration under section 9 ;
Provided that Managing Director, National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Ranchi, or
such other officer may admit any claim within thirty days after the expiry of the specified period
if he is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application within the
specified period.
* 6. Deposit of compensation.--- Where the amount of compensation including interest, if
any, payable under the Act has to be deposited with the Tribunal, such amount shall be deposited
into the treasury for credit in the accounts of the Central Government under the Head “ TDeposits
and Advances – Part-II--Deposits not Bearing Interest – (C) Other Deposits Accounts-
Departmental and Judicial Deposits-Civil Deposits-Deposits of Tribunals appointed under the
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957”.
7. Procedure to be followed by Tribunal.--- (1) The Tribunal shall fix a date and place for
hearing of the matter which it is empowered to decide under the Act and shall inform the parties
of such date and place accordingly.
(2) on the date so fixed or any other date to which the hearing may be adjourned, the Central
Government and every person interested in the dispute before the Tribunal shall state in writing
what in their respective opinions is a fair amount of compensation.
(3) The Tribunal shall afford reasonable opportunity to the parties to adduce such oral and
documentary evidence as they desire to adduce and as may be relevant.
(4) The Tribunal shall record the substance of the statement of the parties and the witnesses,
if any.
(5) Any person who has been admitted to be interested and who has accepted the payment of
compensation under protest may within six weeks or the date of such acceptance prefer an
application to the Tribunal for determining the sufficiency of the amount of compensation:
Provided the Tribunal may entertain an application preferred within thirty days after the expiry
of the specified period if it is satisfied that the applicant had sufficient cause for not preferring
the application within the specified period.
** 8. Appeals to Central Government: (1) Every appeal to the Central Government shall be in
the form of the memorandum singed by the appellant, and shall be addressed to the Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of 3 ( Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of Mining and
Fuel) and be presented to that officer personally or sent to him by registered post with
acknowledgement due. The memorandum shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order
appealed against.
(2) The memorandum of appeal shall set forth, concisely and under district head, the grounds
of the objection to the order appealed from without the argument or narrative; and such grounds
shall be numbered consecutively.
(3) An appeal not filed within time allowed under the Act or in the manner laid down in this
rule shall be rejected by the Central Government but if the appeal is defective in form, the
Central Government, before rejecting such appeal, shall call upon the party concerned to remove
the defects within a particular time, and if he does so, the appeal shall be admitted.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 of the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Second Ordinance, 2014 (7 of 2014), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules
to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, namely :—
1. (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Amendment Rules, 2015.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, in rule 11, after sub-rule (9), the following
sub-rule shall be inserted, namely:—
“(10) The Central Government may in public interest and for the reasons to be recorded in
writing, relax any of the provisions of this rule for the allotment of a Schedule I coal mine to a
Central Government company or corporation.”
WHEREAS a draft of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 which the Central
Government proposes to make under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 was placed in the website of
the Government of India, Ministry of Coal requesting the members of public and all the persons likely to be affected
thereby to submit their objections and suggestions, if any, to the Government of India, Ministry of Coal;
AND WHEREAS in response to such public notice the Ministry of Coal received objections and suggestions from the
members of public and the persons likely to be affected thereby;
AND WHEREAS the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 were finalised after considering the objections and
suggestions;
AND WHEREAS if any further objections and suggestions are received on the said rules from the members of public
and the persons likely to be affected thereby, the same shall be considered and the rules shall be suitable amended;
NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions)
Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:—
CHAPTER I: SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
1. Short title and commencement.- (1)These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. Definitions.- (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a) “additional levy” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of sub-section (1) Section 3 of the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);
(b) “allotment document” means the document referred to in sub-rule (4) of rule 11;
16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(c) “allotment order” means the allotment order as referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);
(d) “business day” means a day which is not a Saturday or Sunday or any other day declared as a public holiday by
the Central Government;
(e) “designated custodian” means a person appointed as a designated custodian by the Central Government under
section 18 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);
(f) “floor price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of
auction;
(g) “mine dossier” means the mine dossier as referred to in sub-rule (6) of rule 9;
(h) “nominated authority” means a person appointed as a nominated authority by the Central Government under
section 6 of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);
(i) “operation and management plan” means the plan as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 28;
(j) “Ordinance” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Ordinance, 2014 (Ord. 5 of 2014);
(k) “reserve price” means the price fixed by the Central Government for a Schedule I coal mine allocated by way of
allotment;
(l) “rules” means the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014;
(m) “successful allocatee” means the successful allocatee as referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule13;
(n) “tender document” means the tender document as referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 10;
(o) “vesting order” means the vesting order as referred to in clause (w) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Ordinance.
(2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined and defined in the Ordinance shall have the meaning
respectively assigned to them in the Ordinance.
CHAPTER II: THE NOMINATED AUTHORITY
3. Appointment of the nominated authority.- (1) The Central Government shall appoint a nominated authority in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Ordinance.
(2) The nominated authority may be a full time authority or be designated as an additional charge, as determined by
the Central Government.
4. Office of the nominated authority.- (1) The Central Government may specify-
(a) the number, designation, role and function of the officers and staff to assist the nominated authority in
accordance with the provision of sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the Ordinance; and
(b) the manner of appointment of the officers and staff through direct recruitment, deputation, contract, or
assignment from other departments or organisations.
(2) The Central Government may make such budgetary allocation as it may deem fit, for discharge of functions by
the nominated authority and the office of the nominated authority.
(3) The nominated authority shall exercise powers as Head of the Department in accordance with the General
Financial Rules and Delegation of Financial Power Rules and the nominated authority may designate one of the officers
working under him as Head of Office.
5. Conditions of service of the nominated authority and the officers and staff.- (1) The conditions of service of
the nominated authority and the officers and staff of the nominated authority, shall be regulated in accordance with such
terms of employment, including the laws, rules, regulations, and contracts, as are applicable to officers and employees of
the Central Government belonging to the corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.
(2) Officers assigned from other departments or organisations and posted with the nominated authority shall be
governed by the terms of employment and the rules applicable to them in their respective departments or organisations
belonging to the corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.
(3) Persons appointed on contractual basis in the office of the nominated authority shall be governed by their
respective terms of contract with respect to their appointment.
6. Experts.- (1) The nominated authority may appoint experts who are already on the panel of the following with
respect to similar expert advisory as required by the nominated authority, namely:-
 (a) any ministry or department of the Central Government; or
(b) any Central Government public sector enterprise or any statutory or autonomous organisation of the Central
Government.
(2) The nominated authority may also appoint experts who are not on any panel after following the procedure
specified by the Central Government.
(3) The nominated authority may in its discretion use quality based selection or selection by direct negotiations for
appointment of experts, as specified in the Manual of Policies and Procedure of Employment of Consultants, dated the
31st August, 2006, issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure.
7. Powers and duties of the nominated authority.- (1) The nominated authority shall exercise such powers as
specified in the Ordinance and these rules.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers and duties specified under section 6 of the
Ordinance, the nominated authority shall have the power or the duty, as the case may be, to-
(a) call for all information necessary from any prior allottee in relation to any Schedule I coal mine, including
records in relation to the coal reserves, production, costs of production, mine infrastructure and contracts
entered into by any prior allottee;
(b) execute the vesting order in such form as may be specified by the Central Government;
(c) execute the allotment order in such form as may be specified by the Central Government;
(d) inform the relevant Central authorities and State authorities to record and mutate incorporeal rights of
whatsoever nature including, of consents, permissions, permits, approvals, grants, registrations;
(e) take requisite steps for the collection of auction proceeds and the amounts realised from allotment;
(f) seek the details of taxes, levies or cess;
(g) direct the secured creditors in relation to a Schedule I coal mine to provide details of any secured debt,
loans or other credit facilities, including security interest created by any prior allottee;
(h) ensure collection of bank guarantee in relation to a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may be;
(i) keep records of any movable property of the prior allottee;
(j) keep records of the intimation of any charge in relation to a Schedule I coal mine provided by any prior
allottee;
(k) call for information from the relevant statutory authorities under the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957 (67 of 1957) and any rules and regulations made thereunder;
(l) adjust the preferential payments and transfer of amount to the Commissioner of Payments for disbursal to
any prior allottee;
(m) transfer of residual amount to the respective State Governments where the Schedule I coal mine is located;
(n) open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions;
(o) make payment to any person other than the prior allottee in accordance with the priority of payments
specified in accordance with the provisions of section 9 of the Ordinance and in the manner as specified in
rule 15;
(p) specify the manner of disposal of coal stock on the appointed date with the prior allottee of Schedule II coal
mine; and
(q) the nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including
that of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it
may deem expedient.
(3) The nominated authority shall also have any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to the
functions of the nominated authority specified in the Ordinance and these rules.
CHAPTER III: AUCTION AND ALLOTMENT PROCESS
8. Allocation process.- (1) In connection with the allocation of Schedule I coal mines-
(a) the nominated authority shall finalise a mine dossier in the manner specified in rule 9;
(b) the Central Government shall issue an order to the nominated authority as provided in sub-rule (2) of rule 8;
18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(c) pursuant to the order issued by the Central Government under sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated
authority shall conduct the auction process in accordance with the provisions of rule 10 or the allotment
process in accordance with rule 11 and rule 12, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government shall issue an order to the nominated authority regarding the following, namely:-
(a) the manner of allocation of the Schedule I coal mine through –
(i) public auction in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the Ordinance; or
(ii) allotment under section 5 of the Ordinance;
(b) the specified end use in case of any Schedule II coal mine or Schedule III coal mine;
(c) broad parameters for conducting auction or allotment; and
(d) any other matter that the Central Government may deem expedient in accordance with the Ordinance or
these rules.
(3) The Central Government may recommend the methodology for determination of the Floor Price or Reserve
Price, as the case may be, to the nominated authority which shall make the determination of the same in accordance with
the Ordinance and these rules.
(4) The sum for auction or allotment shall, inter-alia, include-
(a) a fixed amount for the value of land and mine infrastructure,
(b) the floor price or reserve price, as the case may be,
(c) a variable amount of bid, in case of auction,
to be paid in such manner as may be specified by the Central Government.
9. Mine Dossier.—(1) The nominated authority may notify any prior allottee of the Schedule I coal mine under
sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Ordinance to provide such information and documents regarding the Schedule I coal
mine earlier allotted to such prior allottee, as the nominated authority may feel expedient.
(2) Upon receipt of such notice, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 8 of the Ordinance,
the prior allottee shall provide the information requested by the nominated authority within a period of fifteen days
starting from the date of receipt of the notice referred in sub-rule (1) of rule 9.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-rule (1) of rule 9, the nominated authority may, at any time, seek any
information from a prior allottee including-
(a) particulars of Schedule I coal mine, including the geographical area, coal reserves and other geological
information;
(b) particulars of the mine infrastructure;
(c) particulars of mining operations conducted by the prior allottee, if any, including details of the personnel
engaged;
(d) particulars of the secured creditors, along with details of dues towards secured creditors as on the date of
receipt of the notification referred in sub-rule (1) of rule 9;
(e) particulars of all contracts relevant to the mining operations;
(f) particulars of any entitlement to mining lease, all statutory licenses, permits, permissions, approvals or
consents relevant to the mining operations;
(g) balance sheet and profit and loss accounts, auditor’s reports and other financial information;
(h) particulars of movable property used in connection with the mining operations.
(4) The nominated authority may seek information regarding any Schedule I coal mine from any person other than
the prior allottee, including secured creditors, auditors, counterparties to contracts and the designated custodian and such
person shall provide such information sought within the period as specified by the nominated authority and such person
shall be under an obligation to provide the information as required by the nominated authority.
(5) The person who fails to provide information requested by the nominated authority under this rule shall be liable
for penalties under section 24 of the Ordinance.
(6) The nominated authority shall finalise a written dossier that is, the mine dossier for each Schedule I coal mines,
based on the information received from prior allottee under sub-rule (1) of rule 9 or information received from persons
other than the prior allottee under sub-rule (4) of rule 9.

(7) The nominated authority may update the mine dossier from time to time, on its own accord or upon receiving a
direction from the Central Government in this regard.
10. Auction.—(1) The nominated authority shall conduct the auction of Schedule I coal mines in the manner
specified in the Ordinance, these rules, and any other order issued by the Central Government in this regard.
(2) In respect of Schedule I coal mines, for which the Central Government has specified auction under clause (a) of
sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated authority shall prepare a document for the tendering process, that is, the tender
document.
(3) Each tender document may include such information as the nominated authority may consider expedient for the
purposes of auction including –
(a) the particulars of specified end use, if any;
(b) the mine dossier containing particulars of the Schedule I coal mine;
(c) the terms and conditions associated with the public auction, including the floor price, eligibility conditions,
the process of conduct of auction and other related information;
(d) the request for proposal;
(e) agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful bidder.
(4) The nominated authority shall comply with the following procedure while conducting auction, namely:-
(a) Electronic auction.—The process of auction of Schedule I coal mines shall be conducted through
electronic auction, in accordance with the Ordinance, these rules, the tender document and orders issued by
the Central Government, if any.
(b) Tender process.—(A) The tender process shall be a two stage process comprising of–
(i) technical bid; and
(ii) financial bid.
(B) The technical bid shall be for the purpose of qualification and the financial bid shall be for the purpose of
determination of the successful bidder.
(c) Eligibility.—The nominated authority shall specify the applicable eligibility conditions for participation in
auction in the tender document and the same may include –
(i) technical and financial qualifications of the participants in the auction;
(ii) compliance with the procedure specified for the auction process; and
(iii) requirement to provide security, guarantee.
(d) A person who is eligible under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Ordinance shall also meet the following
eligibility criteria, namely:–
(i) a company eligible to bid for any Schedule II coal mine under sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the
Ordinance shall have incurred an expenditure of not less than eighty per cent of the total project cost
of the unit or phase of the specified end use plant for which the company is bidding,
Explanation.– For the purposes of this sub-clause in case the end use project is being commissioned in
units or phases and one or more units or phases are eligible under the provisions of this sub-clause, the
other unit or phase shall also be eligible provided that not less than forty per cent expenditure of the
cost has been incurred for such other unit or phase;
(ii) a company eligible to bid for any Schedule III coal mine under sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the
Ordinance shall have incurred an expenditure of not less than sixty per cent of the total project cost of
the unit or phase of the specified end use plant for which the company is bidding,
Explanation.– For the purposes of this sub-clause in case the end use project is being commissioned in
units or phases and one or more units or phases are eligible under the provisions of this sub-clause, the
other unit or phase shall also be eligible provided that not less than thirty per cent expenditure of the
cost has been incurred for such other unit or phase;
(iii) capacity of the specified end use project shall be in proportion to the capacity of the Schedule II coal
mine or Schedule III coal mine, as the case may be, for which a company is bidding;
20 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(iv) in case a company is the successful bidder, then the entitlement to receive coal pursuant to such coal
linkage shall stand proportionately reduced on the basis of the requirement of coal being met from the
mine allocated to such company;
(v) for the purposes of sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the total project cost and expenditure incurred shall be
determined on the basis of a certificate issued by the relevant company, duly certified by the statutory
auditors and/ or secured creditors, if any, of the relevant company.
(5) The nominated authority may also specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allocated to a company or its subsidiary or associate companies based on the criteria specified by the Central
Government.
(6) The nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including that
of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it may deem expedient
in determining the floor price, pursuant to sub-section (5) of section 8 of the Ordinance.
(7) The nominated authority shall issue a public notice for the auction in at least one Hindi and one English
language national newspaper and such public notice shall specify the manner in which the tender document shall be
obtained.
(8) The participants in the tender process shall be required to make payment of non-refundable fee of five lakh
rupees for each Schedule I coal mine.
(9) Upon completion of the public auction process, the nominated authority shall forward its recommendations to
the Central Government with regard to the selection of successful bidder.
(10) Upon receipt of such recommendation the Central Government may direct the nominated authority to issue a
vesting order in favour of the successful bidder or may provide such other binding directions to the nominated authority
as may be deemed appropriate.
11. Allotment.—(1) The nominated authority shall conduct the allotment of Schedule I coal mine in the manner
specified in the Ordinance, these rules, and any other order issued by the Central Government in this regard.
(2) The nominated authority shall specify the maximum number of mines or coal reserves or both that may be
allotted to a Government company or corporation of a State based on the criteria specified by the Central Government.
(3) In respect of Schedule I coal mines for which the Central Government has specified allotment under clause (a)
of sub-rule (2) of rule 8, the nominated authority shall prepare an allotment document that is, the allotment document.
(4) Each allotment document shall include such information as the nominated authority may consider expedient for
the purposes of allotment and may include-
(a) the particulars of specified end use, if any;
(b) the mine dossier containing particulars of the Schedule I coal mine;
(c) the terms and conditions associated with the allotment, including the reserve price, eligibility conditions,
the process of conduct of allotment and other related information;
(d) agreements proposed to be entered into with the successful allottee.
(5) The nominated authority shall issue a public notice inviting applications from a Government company or
corporation eligible under section 5 of the Ordinance in at least one Hindi and one English language national newspaper
and the nominated authority may make arrangements for wide dissemination of the allotment document to the
prospective applicants.
(6) The allotment document shall specify the norms for allotment and such norms may include the following,
namely:-
(a) progress of development of coal blocks by the applicant in the past;
(b) financial details of the applicant, including the net-worth and turnover;
(c) technical capabilities of the applicant and the technology proposed to be used for mining;
(d) the end-use towards which the coal is proposed to be utilised;
(e) demand-supply gap;
(f) assessment of requirements of the State;
(g) in case of utilisation of the coal towards any specified end use¹
 (i) state of preparedness of the end use facility;
(ii) proximity of the end use facility to the relevant coal mine;
(iii) in case of generation of power being the specified end-use, the per-capita power availability in the State
of the applicant company.
(7) The nominated authority may take into consideration such recommendations, findings or reports, including that
of any committee of the Central Government, and any order issued by the Central Government as it may deem expedient
in determining the reserve price, pursuant to sub-section (5) of section 8 of the Ordinance.
(8) The nominated authority shall forward its recommendations to the Central Government with regard to the
selection of the allottee.
(9) Upon receipt of such recommendation, the Central Government may direct the nominated authority to issue an
allotment order in favour of the successful allottee or may provide such other binding directions to the nominated
authority as may be deemed appropriate.
12. Allotment on the basis of tariff based competitive bidding for power projects.- Notwithstanding anything
contained in rules 8, 10 or 11, the Central Government may in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Ordinance, allot any Schedule I coal mine to any company recommended for such allotment by the
Government of India in the Ministry of Power, which henceforth may be awarded a power project based on competitive
bid for tariff, on such terms and conditions as the Central Government may deem expedient.
(2) The Central Government shall notify a list of such Schedule I coal mines which would be available for allotment
under this rule and may also specify the terms and conditions for such allotment.
13. Transition through vesting and allotment.- (1) The successful bidder in accordance with the provisions of
rule 10 or the allottee in accordance with the provision of rule 11 or rule 12, that is, the successful allocatee shall be
entitled to receive a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may be.
(2) In the event that the successful allocatee is the same as the prior allottee, then-
(a) the successful allocatee shall be entitled to receive a vesting order or an allotment order, as the case may
be, only after it has made payment of the applicable additional levy within the due date;
(b) the successful allocatee shall immediately inform its secured creditors in writing, who may elect to
continue with the facility agreement in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 12 of the Ordinance;
(c) The successful allocatee shall continue the mining operations in the manner specified in sub-section (10)
of section 8 and sub-section (11) of section 8 of the Ordinance, as applicable.
(3) In case the successful allocatee is not the same as the prior allottee then-
(a) the prior allottee shall be entitled to receive the proceeds in the manner provided in rule 15;
(b) the successful allocatee shall-
(i) inform the prior allottee in writing to commence negotiations to own or utilise any movable property
used in coal mining operations on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed to by them in
accordance with the provisions of section 10 of the Ordinance;
(ii) inform the nominated authority in writing, prior to issuance of the vesting order or allotment order, as
the case may be, regarding its intention to continue and adopt any contract which may be existing with
any prior allottee;
(iii) on receipt of such information from the successful allocatee, the nominated authority shall include the
vesting of such contracts in the vesting order or the allotment order, as the case may be, in accordance
with the provisions of section 11 of the Ordinance.
(4) In accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 8 of the Ordinance, the successful bidder or
allottee shall be required to provide a performance bank guarantee for such amount as may be specified by the Central
Government or the nominated authority and such performance bank guarantee may, inter alia, provide for the following,
namely:-
(i) it shall be unconditional and irrevocable;
(ii) it shall be linked with the milestones for the development of the coal mine till it reaches its peak rated
capacity as specified in the approved mine plan as may be specified by the Central Government; and
(iii) upon invocation of the performance bank guarantee, the payment should be made immediately without
any demur, reservation, caveat, protest or recourse.
22 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
(5) The successful allocatee shall enter into an agreement with the nominated authority wherein the terms and
conditions of the allocation shall be specified.
(6) The vesting order or allotment order shall be cancelled by the nominated authority in case of breach of terms of
the agreement entered under the provisions of sub-rule (5) of rule 13, misrepresentation of facts, violation of the
provisions of the Ordinance and these rules, or in the event of cancellation of mining lease under any other law in force.
(7) Successful allocatee shall be entitled to take possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine and commence
mining operations in the manner specified in sub-section (7) of section 8 of the Ordinance and the vesting order or the
allotment order, as the case may be.
14. Manner of determination of compensation to the prior allottee and lodging of the registered sale deeds.-
(1) The compensation payable to the prior allottee shall be determined by the nominated authority in accordance with the
provisions of section 16 of the Ordinance and for the said purpose the nominated authority may –
(a) seek information regarding the written down value of the mine infrastructure as reflected in the statutorily
audited balance sheet in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 8 and sub-section (2)
of section 16 of the Ordinance; and
(b) seek assistance from the Central Government or experts regarding determination of compensation
payable to the prior allottee in terms of sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Ordinance.
(2) The prior allottee shall lodge the registered sale deeds or its certified copy or both with respect to the Schedule I
coal mines with the nominated authority in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 16 of the
Ordinance, within the time specified by the nominated authority in this regard.
15. Priority of disbursal of proceeds to persons other than the prior allottee.- (1) In accordance with the
provisions of section 9 of the Ordinance, the proceeds arising out of land and mine infrastructure in relation to a Schedule
I coal mine shall be disbursed priority wise in the following order, namely:-
(a) payment to secured creditors in accordance with the provisions of clause (a) of section 9 of the
Ordinance;
Explanation.- In case where there are more than one secured creditors and the proceeds arising out of the
land and mine infrastructure is not sufficient for full satisfaction of their claims, then the nominated
authority shall pay such creditors in proportion to their secured claims.
(b) all revenues, taxes, cess, additional levy and rates due from the prior allottee to the Central Government
or a State Government or to a local authority at the relevant date, and having become due and payable
within the twelve months immediately before that date, with respect to the relevant Schedule I coal mine.
(2) Determination of claims.- (a) The nominated authority may invite persons other than the prior allottee to
submit their claims with proof of their respective claims within a fixed time period to receive payments under this rule,
through publication in at least one English and one Hindi language national newspaper.
(b) every claimant, who fails to file a claim or appropriate proof of the claim within the time specified by the
nominated authority, shall not be entitled for the disbursements made by the nominated authority;
(c) upon receipt of the aforementioned claims, the nominated authority shall arrange the claims in the order
of priority specified in sub-rule (1) rule 15 and examine the same in accordance with such order of
priorities;
(d) the nominated authority shall after such investigation as may, in its opinion be necessary, determine the
nature and extent of such claims and may by an order in writing, admit or reject the claim in whole or in
part;
(e) in the event of any difference regarding determination of claims in accordance with the order of priority,
the matter shall be referred to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government in this
regard shall be binding on the nominated authority.
(3) Manner of disbursement.- The payments referred to in this rule shall be made through the bank account
specified by the persons entitled to receive such payments upon verification of the identity of such persons and the claims
made by such persons, including the secured creditors as the case may be.
16. Determination of title to movable property.- (1) The procedure specified in sub-rule (2) of rule 15 shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, with respect to determination of title to movable property by the nominated authority in pursuance of
the provisos to sub-section (5) of section 10 of the Ordinance.
(2) If the movable property is disposed off by the successful bidder or allottee in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (5) of section 10, the owner or lessee of such movable property may establish the title of movable property
on the basis of the following documents, namely:-
(a) original bills, invoices, receipts in favour of such owner;
(b) any document evidencing such transfer;
(c) entries in books of accounts of the such owner.
17. Re-auction and re-allotment.- (1) In case any Schedule I coal mine is not allocated pursuant to rule 10 or rule
11, as the case may be, on account of any reason whatsoever, the nominated authority shall have the power to re-initiate
the auction in accordance with rule 10 or allotment in accordance with rule 11, as the case may be, with respect to such
Schedule I coal mine, provided the nominated authority has not received any other order under sub-rule (2) of rule 8 from
the Central Government with respect to such Schedule I coal mine.
(2) In case the Central Government has issued a fresh order with respect to any Schedule I coal mine under sub-rule
(1), then the nominated authority shall act in accordance with such order and the provisions of rule 10 or rule 11, as the
case may be shall apply mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER IV: ADDITIONAL LEVY
18. Additional levy.- (1) The additional levy with respect to the coal extracted from any Schedule II coal mine till
the 24th September, 2014 (inclusive of the 24th September, 2014), shall be deposited by the prior allottee with the Central
Government on or before the 31st December, 2014.
(2) The additional levy with respect to the coal extracted from any Schedule II coal mine after the 24th September,
2014 till the 31st March, 2015 (inclusive of the 31st March, 2015), shall be deposited by the prior allottee with the Central
Government on or before the 30th June, 2015.
(3) The additional levy shall be deposited in an account specified by the Central Government by way of a demand
draft, banker’s cheque or any other electronic means, including real time gross settlement or national electronic funds
transfer.
CHAPTER V: CERTAIN ARRANGEMENTS
19. Arrangements for optimal utilisation of coal mines.- (1) A successful bidder or allottee or a coal linkage
holder proposing to enter into any agreements or arrangements referred to in sub-section (1) section 20 of the Ordinance
shall make an application to the Central Government in writing.
(2) The application referred to in sub-rule (1) shall include the complete particulars of the following, namely:-
(a) parties to the proposed agreements or arrangements;
(b) the proposed agreements or arrangements; and
(c) the manner in which such agreements or arrangements would achieve optimal utilisation of coal mines
and cost efficiencies.
(3) The Central Government may seek such further information regarding the proposed agreement or arrangements
as it may deem fit.
(4) The Central Government may after such investigation as may, in its opinion be necessary, by an order in
writing, grant its approval or reject the proposed agreement or arrangements, in whole or in part.
(5) Upon execution of such agreements or arrangements, a certified copy of the same shall be deposited with the
Central Government within fifteen business days of such execution.
20. Utilisation of coal for any other plant of the successful allocatee.- (1) A successful bidder or allottee
proposing to utilise the coal mined from a particular Schedule I coal mine for any of the other plants of such successful
bidder or allottee or its subsidiary company for common specified end use in accordance with the provisions of subsection
(2) of section 20 of the Ordinance, shall provide prior intimation to the Central Government in writing.
(2) The intimation referred in sub-rule (1) shall be provided at least thirty business days prior to the intended date of
such utilisation.
(3) The Central Government may seek further information regarding such utilisation as it may deem fit and may
impose such terms and conditions as may be found necessary.
CHAPTER VI: COMMISSIONER OF PAYMENTS
21. Appointment of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) Central Government shall appoint the Commissioner of
Payments in accordance with the provisions of section 15 of the Ordinance.
(2) The Commissioner of Payments may be a full time position, a part time position or may be designated as an
additional charge, as determined by the Central Government.
24 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
22. Office of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) The Central Government may specify–
(a) the number, designation, roles and functions of the officers and staff to assist the Commissioner of
Payments in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 15 of the Ordinance; and
(b) the manner of appointment of the officers and staff through direct recruitment, deputation, contract, or
assignment from other departments or organisations.
(2) The Central Government may make such budgetary allocation as it may deem fit, for discharge of the functions
by the Commissioner of Payments and the office of the Commissioner of Payments.
(3) The Commissioner of Payments shall exercise powers as Head of the Department in terms of the General
Financial rules and Delegation of Financial Power rules and he may designate one of the officers working under him as
Head of Office.
23. Condition of service of the Commissioner of Payments and the Commissioner’s Officers and Staff.- (1)
The conditions of service of the Commissioner of Payments and the officers and staff, shall be regulated in accordance
with such terms of employment, including the laws, rules, regulations and contracts as are applicable to officers and
employees of the Central Government belonging to corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.
(2) Officers assigned from other departments or organisations and posted with the Commissioner of Payments shall
be governed by the terms of employment and the rules applicable to them in their respective departments or organisations
belonging to corresponding category and pay band, grade pay or scale of pay.
(3) Personnel appointed on contractual basis in the Commissioner of Payments shall be governed by their respective
terms of contract with respect to their appointment.
24. Powers and duties of the Commissioner of Payments.- (1) The Commissioner of Payments shall have such
powers as specified in the Ordinance or these rules.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Commissioner of Payments shall have the power or
duty, as the case may be, to–
(a) make payment to the prior allottee of an amount equal to the compensation determined by the nominated
authority;
(b) open, operate and maintain one or more bank accounts for discharge of its functions; and
(c) maintain records with respect to the disbursals made by the Commissioner of Payments for each Schedule
I coal mine.
(3) The Commissioner of Payments shall also have any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to
the functions of the commissioner of payments.
25. Manner of payment.- The payments referred to in this rule shall be made through the bank account specified
by the persons entitled to receive such payments upon verification of the identity of such persons and the claims made by
such persons.
CHAPTER VII: DESIGNATED CUSTODIAN
26. Appointment of the designated custodian.- (1) The Central Government may appoint any person as a
designated custodian for any Schedule I coal mine by notification under sub-section (1) section 18 of the Ordinance.
(2) The Central Government may appoint different designated custodians for each Schedule I coal mine.
(3) A designated custodian may appoint, with the prior approval of the Central Government, such other officers,
consultants and experts as may be necessary to assist it in the discharge of its functions.
(4) The Central Government may, by an order, specify such matters as may be deemed expedient including the
following, namely:-
(a) the duration of appointment of the designated custodian, which may be extended by the Central
Government from time to time, if necessary;
(b) the specific actions, if any which the designated custodian shall be required to take with respect to each
Schedule I mine entrusted with the designated custodian;
(c) in case the designated custodian undertakes mining operations, the manner of disposal of the coal mined
by the designated custodian.
(5) The Central Government may enter into an operations and management agreement with the designated
custodian.
¹Hkkx IIμ[k.M 3(i)º Hkkjr dk jkti=k % vlk/kj.k 25
27. Possession by the designated custodian.- (1) The designated custodian shall be entitled to take control and
possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine through an order to the prior allottee of the relevant coal mine under the
Ordinance.
(2) At the time of taking over the possession of the relevant Schedule I coal mine, the designated custodian shall
prepare a list of assets constituting the relevant Schedule I coal mine and such list of assets shall be furnished to the
Central Government and the prior allottee.
(3) In case of a Schedule II coal mine, if so directed by the designated custodian, the prior allottee shall hold the
relevant Schedule II coal mine in trust for the designated custodian until the designated custodian assumes possession of
the relevant Schedule II coal mine.
28. Operation and management plan.- (1) The designated custodian shall prepare a detailed operations and
management plan for each Schedule I coal mine entrusted with the designated custodian and submit such operations and
management plan to the Central Government within such time as may be specified by the Central Government which
shall not exceed thirty business days.
(2) The operations and management plan shall contain details regarding-
(a) the manner in which the designated custodian shall operate and manage the relevant Schedule I coal
mine;
(b) in case of any Schedule I coal mine, the operations and management plan shall also include particulars of
any action that the designated custodian may take under sub-section (2) of section 19 of the Ordinance;
(c) the particulars of total cost that may be spent by the designated custodian in implementing the operations
and management plan;
(d) the number of personnel that the designated custodian employs or hires for implementing the operations
and management plan;
(e) in the event the designated custodian undertakes mining operations and disposes coal in the manner
specified by the Central Government, then the amount that may be received by the designated custodian;
(f) manner of transfer of operation and management of Schedule I coal mines from designated custodian to a
third party in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 19 of the Ordinance.
(3) The Central Government may make modifications to the operations and management plan and communicate the
final operations and management plan to the designated custodian which shall be binding on the designated custodian
and the Central Government may at any time require the designated custodian to modify the operations and management
plan.
29. Cost, revenues and fee.- (1) The cost incurred by the designated custodian in operationalising the relevant coal
mines including cost of obtaining statutory clearances shall be reimbursed by the Central Government.
(2) Any revenue which may accrue to the designated custodian shall be deposited with the Central Government.
(3) The designated custodian shall be entitled to a fee to defray his costs as may be specified by the Central
Government.
30. Powers of the designated custodian.- (1) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers specified under
section 19 of the Ordinance the designated custodian shall have the power to-
(a) carry on coal mining operations in any Schedule II coal mine;
(b) appoint a manager and other personnel for the carrying out of coal mining operations;
(c) enter, or authorise any other person to enter any land or premises of Schedule II coal mine entrusted to it;
(d) take such action as may be necessary for the recovery of any debt due to the Schedule II coal mines, in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 19 of the Ordinance;
(e) in case the designated custodian receives any money due to Schedule II coal mines, in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 19 of the Ordinance, which pertains to a transaction made at
any time before the appointed date, the designated custodian shall disburse such money to the prior
allocatee after making payments in accordance with the provision of section 9 of the Ordinance and such
verifications as may be necessary;
(f) incur any expenditure, including the payment of taxes, duties, cess and rates to the Government or to any
local authority, provided such expenditure are not due on account of the prior allottee:
26 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—SEC. 3(i)]
Provided further that in case such expenditure is necessary for operation and management of the mine,
the designated custodian may incur the same with the prior approval of the Central Government;
(g) require any prior allottee of the Schedule II coal mine entrusted with it, or any third party to provide such
information and documents (regarding relevant Schedule II coal mine entrusted with it), as it may think
expedient;
(h) any other powers which may be consequential or incidental to the functions of the designated custodian
specified in the Ordinance and these rules.
(2) The designated custodian shall have the power to take any action to preserve any Schedule I coal mine entrusted
with it, in case of any emergent situation and any such action shall be immediately intimated in writing to the Central
Government by the designated custodian.
(3) The Central Government may at any time direct the designated custodian to hand over possession, management
and control of any of the mines referred to it to a person selected through the process of auction or allotment as per the
provisions of the Ordinance and these rules.
CHAPTER VIII: MISCELLANEOUS
31. If any person submits or produces any document to the Central Government or any authority under the
Ordinance or these rules, such document shall be accompanied by an affidavit regarding its genuineness and if it is
discovered subsequently that such document is false or incorrect, he shall be liable under the law for the time being in
force.
32. Audit.- The nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payments and the designated custodian shall be subject
to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
33. Conduct and discipline.- The nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payments the designated custodian
and personnel, officers and staff working with the nominated authority, the Commissioner of Payment and the designated
custodian shall be subject to conduct and disciplinary rules as may be applicable to them in accordance with the law or
rules for the time being in force.

WHEREAS, the draft of certain rules further to amend the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2014 was published, as required under sub-section (1) of section 31 of the Coal Mines
(Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015), vide notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of
Coal number G.S.R. 47 (E), dated the 24th January, 2023 in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II,
Section 3, Sub-section (i) inviting objections and suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby,
before the expiry of the period of thirty days from the date on which copies of the Gazette containing the
said notification were made available to public;
AND WHEREAS, copies of the said Gazette notification were made available to the public on the
24th January, 2023;
AND WHEREAS, objections and suggestions received from the public in respect of the said draft
rules have been considered by the Central Government;
NOW THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 31
of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 (11 of 2015) the Central Government hereby makes the
following rules further to amend the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014 , namely:-
1. Short title and commencement.⸺ (1) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Special
Provisions) (Amendment) Rules, 2023.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. In the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Rules, 2014, in rule 10, in sub-rule (4), in clause (c), in
sub-clause (iii), for the words “bid security in the form of bank guarantee”, the words “provide bid
security” shall be substituted.


